Operator: Good morning my name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome
to Chevron First Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listenonly mode. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question and answer session and
instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is
being recorded. I would now turn the conference over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead sir.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thank you Matt and welcome to Chevron’s first quarter earnings conference call. Joining me on the
call today is Irene Melitas, our Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s
financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2006. I will refer to the slides that were emailed to you this morning and that are available on the web.
Before we get started, please be reminded that today’s presentation contains estimates,
projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the safe harbor
statement on slide 2.

I will begin with slide 3 which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company
reported results of $4 billion or $1.80 per diluted share for the quarter. Our results were up nearly
50% compared to the first quarter of 2005, mainly due to higher commodity prices, but also helped
by volume additions from the Unocal acquisition. First quarter results were down about 4% from the
fourth quarter 2005 which Irene will detail shortly.
There were no special items for the quarter. Return on capital employed over the trailing four
quarters was 24%. The balance sheet continues to reflect our company’s financial strength and
flexibility. The debt to capital ratio at the end of the quarter was 16%. Stock repurchases in the first
quarter totaled $1 billion, reflecting an accelerated buyback pace.
Irene will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Irene?

Irene Melitas, Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks Steve. My remarks compare results of the first quarter 2006 to the fourth quarter 2005.
Bear in mind that our earnings release compared first quarter 2006 to the same quarter a year ago.
Turning to slide 4, net income was about $150 million lower in the first quarter. Starting with the left
side of the chart, stronger crude prices improved upstream results but were largely offset by the
effects of lower natural gas prices in the U.S. The negative margin variance in downstream reflects
weaker worldwide refining and marketing margins, particularly on the U.S. West Coast, Asia
Pacific, and Europe.
First quarter earnings benefited from increased volumes from higher international upstream liftings
and higher net production in the U.S., resulting from the ongoing restoration of shut-in volumes
from last year’s storm activity. In the downstream, higher refinery inputs and volumes of high value
products in the U.S. were partially offset by declines in Asia and Europe. Earnings from chemicals
improved on lower operating costs and higher sales volumes. The residual, other bar, is the net of
everything else. Our first quarter earnings of 4 billion were adversely impacted by the lingering
effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita which reduced our results by almost 300 million compared to
about 700 million in the fourth quarter. The impact primarily reflects lost profit opportunity from
curtailed oil and gas production.

Slide 5, summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream earnings which were essentially flat between
quarters. Higher liquids realizations benefited earnings by $35 million. $2.12 per barrel increase for
crude between quarters was less than the rise in industry benchmark prices. While quarterly
average prices for WTI improved by $3.29 per barrel, the Gulf of Mexico benchmark trade month
prices, which are on a lag basis, declined by about $1.35 per barrel. The increase in San Joaquin
Valley heavy oil was also lowered in the increase in spot WTI.
Lower natural gas realizations resulted in a negative 250 million profit effect. Our average
realizations declined $2.76 per 1,000 cubic feet, less than the average decline in bid week prices,
reflecting our regional production mix. Storm recovery volumes more than offset natural fuel
declines and the effects of two fewer producing days and benefited earnings by $50 million. Lower
operating expense favorably impacted earnings by about 100 million and was generally attributable
to lower storm-related expenditures and third party fuel and steam cost. Included in other are
higher natural gas trading margins and more favorable FAS 133 results along with other
miscellaneous items.

Turning to slide 6, international upstream earnings for the quarter were over 200 million higher than
the fourth quarter’s earnings. Foreign exchange effects, particularly related to Thailand and the
U.K., negatively impacted profits. Higher realizations improved earnings by about $250 million and
were largely attributable to the rise in liquid prices. Liquid realizations rose by $4.87 per barrel, in
line with the comparable increase of spot Brent prices. The positive variance and volume effect
between quarters was driven by higher liftings, particularly in Europe. The other variance bar
includes the net effect of various items including tax adjustments in both periods.
Slide 7, summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production including volumes produced
from oil sands in Canada and production under an operating service agreement in Venezuela.
Volumes were down by about 1% between quarters. U.S. production increased 33,000 barrels per
day between quarters on the restoration of volume shut in due to the storms in the Gulf of Mexico,
which were only partially offset by normal field declines. Storm-related activity curtailed this
quarter’s production by about 80,000 barrels per day compared to 140,000 barrels per day in the
fourth quarter.
Outside the U.S., oil and gas production decreased 72,000 barrels per day between quarters.
Excluding the effect of cost recovery volumes under certain production sharing agreements and
storms in Australia, production was 2% lower. The decline was primarily due to downtime at Tengiz
for maintenance and Indonesia reflecting inventory storage movements that affect our net
production figures. These were partly offset by increases in the U.K. following plant maintenance
activities in the fourth quarter.
Turning to slide 8; U.S. downstream net incomes declined by $170 million between quarters on
lower realized margins, which were only somewhat offset by volume and other benefits. Margin
effects of $325 million contributed negatively to earnings relative to the fourth quarter, reflecting
weaker refining margins in the East, lower marketing margins on the West Coast, and unfavorable
$70 million swing in final pricing adjustment for long-haul crude. On the Gulf Coast, benchmark
refining margins were down significantly relative to the fourth quarter. The Gulf Coast light/heavy
differential indicator fell by $5.40 per barrel between periods.
In the West, ANS refining margins improved by $2.32 per barrel; however, market mix effect
adversely impacted actual results. In the West, the LA Mogas DTW to spot indicator margin
dropped by almost $8 per barrel as the quarter saw strong motor gasoline inventory draw-downs,
causing increases in spot product prices.
In the East, the Houston rack to spot indicator margin declined by roughly $1.60 per barrel, driven
by the decline in rack prices following hurricane-related disruptions of the fourth quarter.

Higher refinery input volumes and high-value product production both at Pascagoula and El
Segundo drove the improvement in volume effect following fourth quarter production downtime.
Refined product trade sales were up 6% between quarters, led by higher motor gasoline and gas oil
sales. The variance in other includes the favorable impact of lower storm-related costs, lower fuel
costs, and other miscellaneous items.
Turning to slide 9. First quarter international downstream earnings of $370 million were lower than
the fourth quarter by about 50 million. Weaker refining and marketing margins, particularly in Asia
Pacific and Europe, resulted in a negative variance between periods of $180 million. In refining
rising crude cost outpaced increases in light product prices. The Brent margin fell by almost $2.70
per barrel, and the Dubai cracking margin dropped by about $1.60 per barrel. Lower marketing
margins in most regions also contributed to the weaker results, reflecting rising product costs.
Refining product and marketing sales volume effect resulted in a net negative variance between
quarters of 20 million, reflecting an already well-supplied market in Asia Pacific and operational
issues at our Pembroke refinery. The difference in operating expense benefited earnings by about
$95 million between quarters and reflected the absence of certain fourth quarter turnaround costs
and charges associated with the fourth quarter Buncefield terminal incident in the U.K. The
variance in other includes favorable tax-related swings and other miscellaneous items.


Slide 10 shows chemical results were 153 million in the first quarter compared to 71 million in the
fourth quarter. Chevron Phillips Chemical Company’s stronger performance for the quarter was
primarily due to declines in operating expenses and higher sales volume. The improvement in
earnings related to additives was mainly due to a combination of higher sales volumes and margins
and lower operating expenses.
Slide 11 covers all other. First quarter results show a negative variance from the prior quarter,
mainly due to the absence of the company’s share of gain recorded on the sale of Dynegy’s
midstream gas business, which is reflected in the P&L business segment. Our first quarter interim
update guidance for this segment calls for net quarterly charges in the range of 160 to $200 million
excluding Dynegy. Actual net charges for the quarter were within this guidance. That completes our
brief analysis of the quarter.
Steve, back to you.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks Irene. And now a brief recap of our strategic progress in recent months. I'll begin with our
upstream activities on slide 12 where we’ve announced the successful addition of several acreage
positions that enhance our exploration and development portfolio. These include the acquisition of
five heavy oil leases in the Athabasca region of Northern Alberta in Canada, covering 75,000 acres
with prospects for significant volumes of oil. Exploration rights to a large offshore block located in
the Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia, and adjacent to the company-led Gorgon Project.
th
Six blocks awarded to us in the 19 Norwegian Licensing Round located in the Nordkapp East
Basin in Norwegian Barents Sea and two exploration concessions in the Gulf of Thailand, one
located near existing Chevron fields.
Turning to slide 13; in downstream, we recently announced the purchase of a 5% interest in
Reliance Petroleum Limited, a company formed by Reliance Industries, to construct, own and
operate a 580,000 barrel per day refinery on the west coast of India. The refinery will be the world’s
sixth largest. The agreement includes a provision which grants Chevron the right to increase its
equity interest in Reliance Petroleum to 29% in the future. Chevron has also signed two 
Memoranda of Understanding with Reliance Industries to jointly pursue other downstream and
upstream business opportunities in this key growth market.
And in corporate, we increased cash flow to our shareholders through our dividends and share
repurchases. Earlier this week, we announced a 15.6% dividend increase, raising our overall
th
quarterly dividend to $0.52 per share. This represents the 19 consecutive annual increase and as
I mentioned at the beginning of the call, share repurchases totaled $1 billion for the first quarter.
Our policy is to increase dividends and maintain a share repurchase program that is consistent with
sustainable earnings and cash flow. Our recent actions are a consequence of our confidence we
have in our company's prospects.

Well that concludes our prepared remarks. We'll now take your questions, one question per caller
please. We plan to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. So, Matt, please open the lines for
questions. Thanks.

QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION
Operator: [Operator Instructions]. Our first question comes from Doug Terreson of Morgan Stanley,
your question please.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Congratulations guys on your result.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Doug.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: During the past year, maybe 18 months or so, cost for manpower and
materials and other things that are used for new energy infrastructure have experienced some
inflation and that’s true whether it relates to the upstream or the downstream projects. And on this
point while I realize that the record speaks for itself for the Reliance guys at Chandigarh during the
past decade, I want to see if you could highlight some of the financial or design advantages that
may be present for the proposed new plant and that it appears to be extremely competitive on a
variety of comparable economic measures as it relates to investment cost for that plant.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay Doug. Well, the refinery I mentioned in which we're taking an initial
5% interest or the partnership in which we're taking an initial 5% interest will be a 580,000 barrel a
day refinery. There is a companion refinery that Reliance Industries Limited owns in the adjacent
area. It's somewhat larger but this new refinery will be able to run a heavier crude slate. The new
refinery is projected to come on stream in late 2008 and part of the attractiveness is that their
experience in constructing and operating refineries has been excellent. And they will be able to
accelerate the design and construction process appreciably relative to an operator that didn’t have
such a good experience in that same area. So, many of the engineering designs and contractors I
believe, that were used in the first refinery will be used in the second and as a consequence it will
be coming on stream fairly promptly.
The arrangement that we have with Reliance calls for these other memoranda that we have signed
with them and if the discussions pursuant, that will occur pursuant to these memoranda of
understanding lead to definite agreements, then Chevron will have the opportunity to increase its
equity stake in Reliance to 29%. Some of these other agreements call for in the downstream, the
provision of feedstocks to the refinery in excess of our equity ownership and also for the off take of
products since this will be an export refinery that can then move into appropriate locations including
the Chevron supply value chain. There will also be negotiations as part of the memoranda of
understanding to find opportunities for Reliance Industries Limited and Chevron to cooperate in the
upstream side of the business as well.
The refinery does look quite attractive if you look at the cost on a daily barrel comparison to grass
roots and even brown root refineries that have occurred from data that I’ve seen from the API. So I
think, we are very pleased to establish this relationship with Reliance and to really have this option
to expand a position in the downstream in a very important and growing market. So I couldn’t agree
more with you Doug, I think this is an excellent opportunity for Chevron and we look forward to a
very productive relationship with our new partner.
Second question please?
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon of Sanford Bernstein. Your question please?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi, just would like to dive in a bit more into the upstream side of the
business, I appreciate the refinery is a great way to get an export market or an export chain going
into the U.S. and around the world, but actually quite interested in the upstream positions Reliance
has developed over the last few years and their exploration discoveries that they have made as
well. How much in terms of the MOU, maybe you can go into that in a bit more detail in terms of
how locked in is it that potentially you could participate in a joint venture with Reliance. Or indeed is 
there any idea about spinning off their upstream division and for you to take a stake in that? And
basically I am trying to get a feel for how much of their existing discoveries or exploration acreage
in India you'll be able to tie in with them and therefore really get a significant foothold in India more
than just refining.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Neil. It's a fair question but it's a little premature for us to
discuss the type of things that you were alluding to. We’ve agreed to discuss collaborating with
Reliance on opportunities in the upstream sector, but the exact parameters have not been decided.
So, while some of the things you are alluding to may come to pass, we are just simply not in a
position at this point to speak very definitively. Over this next period of time, as these
understandings in the memorandum of understanding take the form of definitive agreements, we
can really address the type of thing you are alluding to. But at this juncture, it's just a bit premature.
Good question and thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question is from Bruce Lanni of A.G. Edwards. Your question please?
<Q – L Bruce Lanni>: Good morning Steve and Irene, congratulations on a good quarter.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Bruce. Thank you.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning, Bruce.

<Q – L Bruce Lanni>: Just quickly, in the news release, you’ve commented on the Unocal
transaction and stated that the acquisition – the economics even look more favorable. Can you
provide any more color on that and exactly where you are in the timing of the integration process?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Bruce. Well let me talk about it in a couple of different ways. At the
time we announced the deal a year ago, we commented that the transaction would be economic
from a cost of capital perspective. And certainly with the events that have transpired with respect to
commodity prices in the last many months and looking forward to certainly in the next few years,
the economics are even more attractive given just the movement of prices. But, we are very
pleased with the assets and the way they have performed, Bruce, they’ve, we've not been
disappointed and we're right on track with the integration of the two companies. In fact just from a
financial point of view, we'll be integrating this month all of the North America Unocal operations
into – in the Chevron system. So we're going to lose some capability of separately identifying
Unocal from Chevron. But the integration is going on very smoothly and I think it reflects our
experience having gone through the Chevron and Texaco merger just a few years ago.
On the synergy side of things, you recall we announced at the time of the deal, $325 million of
synergy opportunities. Those are tracking right on as we had mentioned at our Analyst Meeting last
month, about 60% of the – of that has been captured on a run rate basis at the end of 2005 and
about 80% here in the middle of 2006. So we see an end in sight and that will be well received.
About 45% of the synergies are in the upstream and gas business. A little over 20% in the technical
side and services, and then about 35% or so in the corporate side.
We have been integrating the people and certainly have found that the Unocal employees bring a
lot to the Chevron organization. At the time of the transaction there were about 6300 or so Unocal
employees and we'll probably see 52, 5300 of them coming forward with the company when all is
said and done by the end of this year and next. But as mentioned at the Analyst Meeting last
month, in addition to the synergies which are mostly cost related we are also seeing tremendous
benefits in the value creation side for drillings and completions as we bring the best of the two
companies together. We are seeing addition optionality in transportation routes out of the Caspian
area with Unocal’s interests in the pipeline and we are also seeing them, as advertised a lot of
optionality in our global gas business with the two companies coming together in Southeast Asia.
So we are very optimistic as to this transaction and were it to be done today it would be much more
expensive than it was a year ago. So we are very pleased and all of things we had anticipated are
coming in. Thanks Bruce.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman from the Benchmark Company. Your question
please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Steve and Irene good morning. I have a question about CPC and the Tengiz
expansion, it’s beginning to look as if the expansion at the field level is going to come on before
there could be any Russian approved expansion of the pipeline. Can you give me an idea whether
CPC is running full as we speak and what the roughly incremental transportation cost will run on
the additional Tengiz volumes if in fact alternate transportation routes have to be pursued.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Mark. I don’t have those specific numbers but as far as I know
CPC is running full and that as the projects in TCO the Tengiz field come on stream, we’ll have to
look at – are looking at alternative routes for moving the crude to market, as to the incremental
difference in transportation cost for these alternate routes in relation to CPC we’ll have to get back
to you offline, but it's a fair question and we will cycle back to you. Thanks Mark. Next question?
Operator: Our next question is from Nikki Decker from Bear, Stearns. Your question please?

<Q – Nicole Decker>: Good morning Steve and Irene. You talked about accelerating the pace of
your buyback program, is this the pace that we can expect to see for the coming quarters and could
we expect additional authorization next year?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Nikki. Just for background for everyone, the first program that was
authorized and commenced on April of 2004 resulted in 2.1 million shares or pardon me $2.1 billion
worth of Chevron shares being acquired in 2004. Last year we acquired $3 billion worth of Chevron
shares and in November of that year, the first $5 billion program that had been authorized by our
Board was completed. They authorized a follow on program of similar size and duration that we
commenced in December of last year. We consciously have the Board authorize us a dollar amount
and a timeframe so that we can adjust the pace during the course of the period authorized to fit the
circumstances of the company’s cash flows and the market. Certainly as, given the conditions that
we had, Nikki, in the first quarter, $1 billion was, seemed to be a very reasonable amount. It was
about a third higher than the average pace during, quarterly pace during 2005, and it's not
unreasonable that if conditions stay as they are today, that that pace might move forward for the
balance of the year. If that pace does move forward we’ll be completing the program early next
year. Here again though I don’t want to mislead you, we could move it up and move faster or we
could slow it down depending on conditions. Thank you very much, next question please?
Operator: The next question is from Jennifer Rowland from J.P. Morgan, your question please.
<Q – Jennifer Rowland>: Thanks, I was wondering if you can just give us an update on where
things stand with your production in the Gulf of Mexico and whether or not your estimates for
volumes that may not get recovered has changed at all?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Jennifer. That’s a good question. Let me give a little
background for those on the phone. When the second of the storms came through last year, by the
time we got to October 1, our Gulf of Mexico production was about 60,000 barrels a day OEG, and
our capacity prior to the hurricanes was around 320,000 barrels a day. From that low point on
October 1, we then started ramping up our production as oil, that had been shut in, came back on.
Much of it was shut in because of infrastructure problems. The average production during the fourth
quarter was 160,000 barrels a day. And here in the first quarter it’s, as we have noted, it’s about
200,000 barrels a day. Data that I have seen recently for the month of April looks like we’re moving
a little bit above that level, maybe in the neighborhood of 215,000 barrels a day or so. Our
expectation is as we bring on production that had been shut in, it’ll be largely offset though by
normal field declines that will occur during the year. So on average, probably for 2006, we are
looking at about 200,000 barrels a day. What you need to keep in mind is from that pre-storm level,
the decline rate was going to be pretty steep regardless. Our current thinking is from that pre-storm
levels we probably have about 20,000 barrels a day, that has been permanently lost simply
because it’s uneconomic to bring back on. So that looks to be the pattern as we see it right now,
Jennifer, and I hope that helps. Thanks very much. Next question please.
Operator: Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Citigroup. Your question.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thanks. Good morning Steve and good morning Irene.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning.

<Q – Doug Leggate>: My question is on disposals, Steve. I don’t want to hark back too much
about the Unocal acquisition. But when you did the deal I think you had suggested somewhere
around $2 billion of disposals. And you promptly did that in Canada or I guess Unocal did. The strip
price however, was substantially below where it is now. And my question really is, are you done
with disposals? Are you tempted to high grade any further with the current oil price environment
and is there any more high grading to be done within the Unocal portfolio itself?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Doug. Your recitation of the facts are correct. At the time of the
transaction being announced we gave an indication that we thought we'd sell about $2 billion worth
of assets with the sale of Northrock last fall in Canada about 1.7 to 1.8 was achieved. We're
continuously looking at our operations as to assets to acquire and assets to divest whether they be
legacy Unocal or legacy Chevron for that matter, and at this time most of the assets that we've
seen from the Unocal side looked to fit in very well with our operations, so we don't anticipate any
major divestments that we're inclined to announce at this juncture. But we're always looking at our
portfolio adding things when it’s economic to do so organically or otherwise, and disposing of
assets when we feel it will attract more value than it would be from retaining it ourselves.
Philosophically you recall a couple of years ago when we described the Chevron portfolio, and
again this was before Unocal, we characterized some assets as being strategic or core and others
as being non-core. Being non-core didn’t necessarily mean that they would be sold but rather that
they wouldn’t draw an inordinate amount of capital and they would be retained if we felt that they
were worth more to be owned and operated than to be sold to another party. In all instances our
decisions are based on economics and they are not based on any financial metrics to, underpinning
the appearances of gain and loss. Thanks for the question Doug. Next one.
Operator: The next question comes from Michael Young from Fidelity Investments. Your question
please.
<Q – Michael Young>: Hi Steve, good morning.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning Mike.
<Q – Michael Young>: The question is to provide an update on your most recent conversations
with Venezuela particularly with respect to potentially higher royalty rates on the heavy oil project
and also could you quantify the amount of the tax claim settlement in the first quarter?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay. Thank you Mike. Well the tax situation in Venezuela has been in
the press for a number of months and some of the information is accurate and much of it isn’t, but
th
on March 9 of this year the Venezuela tax agency proposed an oil reform tax and the proposed
reform could increase the current tax rate from 34% to 50% for all of the extra-heavy oil crude
projects in the Orinoco Belt. The reform must be first approved by the finance minister and then
submitted to the National Assembly for discussion and approval. It’s way too early to speculate
about what will happen and what the impact of that will be particularly if it entails any conversions
as there had been for the lighter oil projects to the mixed companies. But having said that if you
were to simply to try to get a handle on the tax implications of going from 34 to 50%, Hamaca’s
earnings are reported separately in Chevron’s 10-K and it’s relatively easy to estimate the ongoing
impact of the tax increase from 34 to 50%. So that just takes a few clicks on the calculator and you
would be able to determine that, but again I would like to emphasis it's way too early to speculate
on what might happen with respect to extra-heavy oil. Thanks very much Mike. Next question.
Operator: Our next question comes from William Ferer of W.H. Reaves and Company. Your
question please.
<Q – William Ferer>: Hi, good morning boys and girls.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi Bill.

<Q – William Ferer>: You forgot to tell Mike Young he had to take his shoes off to do those
calculations, but that’s okay. I’d like to offer my congratulations on the dividend increase and certain
shareholders certainly find that to be very important. My question relates to the first quarter
exploration expense. Historically for several years, first quarter exploration expense U.S. and
generally foreign, not always, but generally foreign, has been the low point or a low point within a
year and both U.S. and overseas tend to spike in Q1, I am wondering if that is specifically a
consequence of the Unocal acquisition being fully folded into the company or if there is an unusual
dry hole component associated with the first quarter, especially because there are so many key
Gulf of Mexico wells that people are watching and waiting for. So perhaps if there wasn’t a dry hole
component maybe there were other expenditures taking place. Thanks for the question.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Bill. First of all, let me just comment on the dividend item for a
moment. We have been very conscious of trying to return cash to the shareholders. Again we look
at maintaining a sustainable dividend program based on earnings and cash flows. This quarter is a
15.6% increase. A year ago, second quarter of ‘05 there was a 12.5% increase and just nine
months earlier than that, in the third quarter of ‘04 was a 9.6%. So we feel that’s very appropriate
and as you mentioned, Bill, think the shareholders approve it – appreciate it. As for exploration
expense, I presume you are commenting on comparisons between the first quarter of this year and
the first quarter of last year, and I’ll ask Irene to comment on that. But I suspect a good part of the
change is attributable to the inclusion of Unocal in the first quarter of ‘06 and it wasn’t there a year
ago.
<A – Irene Melitas>: And that is exactly correct. Because the delta from the first quarter and fourth
quarter, it was pretty much flat between the two periods. But for the first quarter this year versus
last year, there is a spike and it is largely attributable to Unocal.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks very much Bill. Next question please.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers. Your question please.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Good morning, Steve and Irene.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: If I could, I mean, going back into Venezuela for a moment, Steve can you give
us some guidance in terms of when your Boscan and LL652 changed from the operating service
contract to the joint venture. What’s the impact in terms of reserve amount you can book and in
terms of production, how much production now that will be a reduction from -- and what kind of
earning impact or if you get any compensation from that change? Also from a theoretical or that
conceptually standpoint, when you judge a particular country, whether you want to do business or
not, what kind of criteria, I mean with Venezuela looked like they continued to be in the midway
changing somewhat the rule of the game. How do you judge that you want to want to continue and
invest more money into a particular country like in the case that you do the LNG or the natural gas
exploration? I mean if you can share with us some kind of criteria that would be great. Thank you.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Paul. You’ve got about a half a dozen questions, I think included in
that. Let me begin on the empresa mixta question. At the end of March, Chevron signed an MOU
with the government that specified terms for the conversion to an empresa mixta which will be
consistent with the 2001 hydrocarbon law. And the EMs, as I referred to, the empresa mixtas, as it
relates to Chevron would pertain to our Boscan operations as well as LL652. At this point, the
conversion isn’t finalized, the terms now require the approval of the Venezuelan National Assembly.
So we are waiting for that to occur and it's always conceivable that the terms could change in some
way. These agreements however are subject to some binding confidentiality agreements, so at this
time, we clearly can’t disclose any of the specific details since really the negotiations are still open.
Having said that, the empresa mixtas will have the rights to produce and sell oil and gas, and we'll
have to look at those rights in relation to the FASB and FCC reporting requirements as to whether
or not reserves can be booked
As far as production is concerned, Chevron had been showing up to this point as other produced
volumes the gross production from Boscan as part of its OSA volumes. We'll have to then, when
the agreement is finalized, take a look at equity production which clearly will be less but it will be
equity production. Regarding the valuation issue, the Venezuelan government has stated publicly
that it intends to preserve the OSA values of the western oil companies making these conversions.
Consequently, we don’t expect to book any accounting loss on the OSA of that conversion when it
occurs. With respect to the criteria to be used for investments whether it be in Venezuela or
Canada or the U.K., United States or anywhere we take a look at all of the components which very
much include the fiscal terms in making our assessments as to making an investment, and the
same will pertain to Venezuela as well. Thanks very much for your question. Next question please.
Operator: The next question comes from John Herrlin of Merrill Lynch. Your question please.
<Q – John Herrlin>: Hi, you are involved in a lot of deepwater developments or exploration wells
that are high profile. I was wondering if you could give us sense of timing of when we’ll hear things
on Jack and also the JDZ and with Tahiti can you give us kind of a status update?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks John. On the JDZ, that well is still being evaluated and although
there has been things in the press offered, we're still evaluating it for the next several months and
don't plan on making an announcement until that evaluation has been completed. As far as the
other deepwater projects that you've alluded to, I think they are still on track relative to the timetable
that we had talked about at the Analyst Meeting last month. If you have any specific things though
please feel free to give Irene a call and we'll be happy to chat with you. Thanks very much John.
Next question please.
Operator: Our next question is from David Wheeler from Neuberger, your question please.
<Q – David Wheeler>: Hi Steve, can you tell us, it sounds like, Unocal, this will be the last quarter
where you have the financials separated on internally. Can you tell us how accretive and dilutive
the Unocal was to Chevron in the first quarter for cash flow, earnings, and returns?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Dave. You are right, we're going to lose the capability here in the
second quarter of at least – from an accounting point of view of definitively identifying legacy
Unocal operations from legacy Chevron. Looking back at not only the first quarter but the last five
months of 2005, we found Unocal from an earnings point of view to be slightly accretive to earnings
and much more so accretive in terms of cash flow per share. The number that sticks in my mind is
in the neighbor of 6 to 7% from a cash flow point of view. As we had mentioned though in the
Analyst Meeting last month, we did take a hit through the workings of purchase accounting with
respect to other deal metrics that being the return on capital employed. So we envision that will be
off by maybe 1.5% but we’re committed to improving the returns on the overall enterprise. In
measuring the accretive nature from an earnings point of view, it really depends on the base from
which you start and what your expectations of Chevron would have been. Certainly from the point
of last year to now, earnings performance has been, from an earnings point of view, is far better
than I think the analyst community would have had 12 months ago. So it’s on that basis we do the
measurement. Thanks very much for your question. It’s a good one. Next question please.
Operator: The next question is from Neil McMahon of Sanford Bernstein. Your question please.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi, sorry for another question. It’s a follow up on the Reliance deal again.
Maybe if it’s a quick answer, I’ll squeeze in a second one. Do you have any exclusivity on the MOU
with regard to Reliance?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: I believe Neil, as far as exclusivity, you are intending that can Reliance
deal with other parties concurrent with dealing with us?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Yes.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: You know, I believe there is exclusivity but I’m hesitant to say definitively. I
don’t believe – I do believe there is exclusivity but I’m not 100% positive of that fact. We will have to
confirm that with you.

<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay. Can I just go for a quick follow up?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Yes.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Your problems in Kazakhstan you say they are equipment related. Could
you just go into that and what fields you are talking about, if that was Karachaganak or if it was
Tengiz.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you Neil. Well, we had weather related problems I think at the end
of the day at both, in Karachaganak. But the larger issue we had was with Tengiz. In the middle of
January, we had some heat exchangers fail in Train 1 and that brought production down or limited
production, I should say, for about two months. The Train came back up in the middle of March as I
recall and it was back to normal production in March, but that had an adverse effect on our
production between quarters, I want to say on the order of maybe 45,000 barrels a day between the
-- for TCO -- from the first quarter of this year to the fourth quarter of last year.
<A – Irene Melitas>: That's correct.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: But as a consequence, we did have operating issues in Kazakhstan and
some in our Athabasca project in Canada and we had weather related issues in Australia as well
with some cyclones coming through. If you take a look at those type of operating issues which one
would hope are not repeatable, they start to approach about 60,000 barrels a day downward. And if
we were to include those to the base of what we have seen here in the first quarter, it should put us
back into the guidance range that we had offered. Neil, thanks very much. Next question please.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman of the Benchmark Company. Your question
please.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Hi, Steve, as I do the arithmetic, the fourth quarter to first quarter delta on
international BOE production is about a negative 70,000 a day. Yet the upstream slide, international
upstream slide. So the 40 million – I think it was a 40 million number, in terms of positive variance
on lifting. Is this a mix issue or in fact did you over lift in the quarter such that you are over lifted at
the end of the quarter?
<A – Irene Melitas>: Mark, can you repeat your question again please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: From a production, reported production standpoint, fourth quarter against first
quarter.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Right.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: It is down 72,000 equivalents a day from the supplement. On the international
upstream income variance slide, Irene, when you discussed it, there is a positive volume variance
of $40 million.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Right.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Wondering is that strictly mix related, or was there over lifting in the quarter
such that you are over lifted as of March 31?
<A – Irene Melitas>: We are over lifted. There was an over lifting in the quarter that benefited our,
relative to the fourth quarter, there were some benefits associated with lifting.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Mark. We'll take one more question please.
Operator: Our final question comes from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers. Your question please.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. Hi Steve. Just a quick one on – a month ago, in your Analyst
Meeting when you gave the 2.7 to 2.8 million barrels a day. Does that include the potential, the tax
changes or that the converting the operating contract into a JV in Venezuela already?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Paul. The guidance that we had offered for those of you who
weren't at the meeting was an OEG production of 2.7 to 2.8 million barrels a day. The wide range
was intended to accommodate for any number of things including weather that might occur this
year, disruptions that might occur in any of our operations around the world whether they be
operating of nature or political in nature. And inherent in the 2.7 to 2.8 range was the continuation
of the existing OSA arrangement that we have with Venezuela for Boscan. When the agreements
are concluded and we have a good fix on where things stand, if need be, we’ll adjust the guidance.
But at this stage, Paul, we're still thinking that 2.7 to 2.8 is reasonable but clearly with the
conversion to the EM, it would be at the lower end of that range. Thanks very much. Mark or Matt
rather…

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Thank you all very much. In closing let me say that we appreciate everyone’s participation on the
call and I especially want to thank the analysts who asked questions on behalf of all the participants
in this morning’s session. We’ll be filing the first quarter 10-Q next Thursday. So you’ll be able to
see more detail than we’ve been able to provide on the phone, here and in the earnings release as
well. So goodbye and Matt back to you.
Operator: Thank you sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today’s Chevron’s first quarter
earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.
