Operator: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will your conference facilitator today. Welcome to
Chevron's second quarter 2006 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listenonly mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and
instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is
being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Mr. Dave O'Reilly. Please go ahead sir.

David O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning and welcome to Chevron's second quarter earnings conference call. I am joined
today by Steve Crowe, our Chief Financial Officer; and Irene Melitas, Manager of Investor
Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of
2006, and I will refer to the slides that were e-mailed to you this morning and that are available on
the web.

Before we get started, please be reminded that today's presentation contains estimates, projections
and other forward-looking statements and I ask that you review the “Safe Harbor” statements on
Slide 2.
I will begin with Slide 3 which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company
reported results of $4.4 billion or $1.97 per diluted share for the quarter. Our results were up 18%
compared to the second quarter 2005, on higher crude oil prices and increased production. Second
quarter results were up 9% from the first quarter of 2006 and Steve will discuss this shortly. Return
on capital employed for the trailing four quarters was 24%. We continued to reduce debts during
the second quarter, and at quarter end, our debt-to-capital ratio was 13.4%. Our C&E spending
totaled $4.3 billion for the quarter. Stock repurchases in the second quarter totaled $1.3 billion,
reflecting an accelerated buyback pace, and we anticipate completing the $5 billion buyback
program by year-end, and finally, our year-to-date shareholder return is about 21%.
Steve will now take us through the quarterly comparisons, first quarter to second quarter. Steve?

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks Dave. My remarks compare the results of the second quarter 2006 to the first quarter. Bear
in mind that our earnings release compares the second quarter of 2006 to the same quarter a year
ago.
Turning to Slide 4; net income was about $360 million higher in the second quarter. Starting with
the left side of the chart, stronger crude prices improved upstream results but were partially offset
by the effects of lower natural gas prices in the U.S. The positive margin variance in downstream
reflects stronger refining margins in the U.S. and improved international margins, particularly in
Asia-Pacific and Europe.
Second quarter earnings benefited from higher production in the U.S. related to ongoing restoration
of volumes shut in from last year's storm activity. More than offsetting, however, were lower
international upstream liftings, primarily reflecting the timing of cargos. Our second quarter
earnings were adversely affected by a $250 million abandonment charge net of insurance, related
to higher anticipated costs to dismantle wells and facilities damaged during last year's Gulf of
Mexico storms. The variance in the residual, chemicals, and other bar is the net of everything else
and reflects lower results in chemicals and shipping, a negative swing in tax-related and other
miscellaneous items.

Slide 5 summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream earnings which were roughly $310 million
lower between quarters. Higher liquids realizations benefited earnings by 175 million. The $6.62 per
barrel increase for liquids between quarters was less than the rise in industry benchmark prices.
While the average quarterly price for WTI improved $7.22 per barrel, the Gulf of Mexico benchmark
trade month price, which is on a lag basis, rose by $6.42 per barrel. Lower natural gas realizations
resulted in a negative $165 million profit effect. Our average realizations declined $1.57 per
thousand cubic feet, less than the average decline in bid week prices, reflecting our regional
production mix and volume sold at spot. The effects of storm recovery volumes and one additional
producing day benefited earnings by $65 million. The charge for higher abandonment costs
associated with structures and wells damaged from last year's hurricanes reduced earnings by
about 250 million. Included in the other are lower natural gas trading margins and the negative
swing effects of tax-related and other miscellaneous items.
Turning to Slide 6; international upstream earnings for the quarter were about $125 million higher
than the first quarter's earnings, driven by the rise in liquid prices. Higher realizations improved
earnings by $325 million. Liquid realizations rose by $7.11 per barrel, in line with comparable
increases of spot Brent prices. Despite slightly higher international production in the second
quarter, lower liftings last quarter – particularly in the U.K. and Australia – resulted in a negative
earnings variance of $240 million or about $0.11 per share.

As mentioned during last quarter's conference call, we were overlifted in the first quarter, which
benefited earnings and during the second quarter underlifted relative to production by a similar
amount. Year-to-date liftings are roughly in balance with production. The other variance bar
includes the net effect of various items and includes a favorable swing in foreign exchange and tax
items that was partially offset by higher operating costs and exploration expenses.
Looking forward, as a result of the recently enacted tax increase on North Sea oil and gas
producers, we anticipate taking a third quarter catch-up charge of about $200 million and expect
another $80 million or so on second half earnings.
Slide 7 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced
from oil sands in Canada and production under an operating service agreement in Venezuela.
Volumes were up about 1% between quarters.
U.S. production increased 18,000 barrels per day between quarters, mainly on the restoration of
volumes shut in due to storms in the Gulf of Mexico. Despite the increase, the storm-related activity
curtailed second quarter production by about 60,000 barrels per day. Outside the U.S., oil and gas
production increased by 7,000 barrels per day between quarters. The main changes were in
Kazakhstan following the downtime in Tengiz in the first quarter and in the U.K. due to planned
maintenance last quarter. Production increases elsewhere added about 19,000 barrels per day.
Turning to Slide 8; production during the first half of the year was 2.66 million barrels per day. This
was lower than our projection at the beginning of the year as a result of greater-than-expected
operational downtime and the PSC and royalty effects of higher prices on that production. In the
second half of this year, we expect production will average about 2.6 million barrels per day. This
estimate includes a 90,000-barrel-per-day effect from the Empresa Mixta conversion in Venezuela,
partially offset by production increases elsewhere in the portfolio. Despite the Empresa Mixta
conversions, our production growth guidance discussed at the March Analyst Meeting remains
unchanged.
Turning to Slide 9; U.S. downstream net income rose by about $345 million between quarters, led
by stronger refinery margins. Margin effects of $400 million contributed favorably to earnings
relative to the first quarter, reflecting more robust refining margins, particularly in the West. In the
West, the ANS [Alaska North Slope] refining margin improved by $10.74 per barrel between
periods, and in the East, the Gulf Coast light/heavy differential indicator rose by $11.48 per barrel.
On the marketing side, improved aviation fuel margins and stronger seasonal asphalt profits also
contributed to the higher downstream results. Refined product trade sales were down 4% between
quarters due to a change in accounting for certain purchase and sales contracts, which now
requires the transactions to be netted for financial reporting. Absent the accounting rule change,
trade sales volumes in the second quarter would have been up 3%. Higher operating expenses
reduced earnings by $50 million, reflecting an increase in environmental reserves and higher plant
maintenance activity at Pascagoula.
Turning to Slide 10; international downstream earnings of $444 million were higher than the first
quarters by about 75 million. Stronger refining and marketing margins, particularly in Asia-Pacific
and Europe, resulted in a positive variance between periods of $240 million. In refining, increased
demand coupled with the industry's heavier maintenance activity pushed margins higher. The Brent
margin climbed $1.53 per barrel, and the Dubai cracking margin rose by $4.56 per barrel. Lower
marketing margins in most regions were more than offset by stronger margins in Europe. The swing
in tax-related items reduced earnings by about $60 million between quarters. Finally, the variance
in other includes lower shipping and trading results as well as other miscellaneous items.

Slide 11 shows chemical results were $94 million in the second quarter compared to 153 million in
the first quarter. Olefins were down about $60 million, primarily due to lower ethylene margins and
volumes. Polyethylene results were also lower due to a decline in sales margins. The improvement
in earnings related to additives was mainly attributable to higher sales volumes and margins.
Slide 12 covers all other. Second quarter results show a positive variance from the prior quarter,
largely due to gains from the redemption of the company's investment in Dynegy's preferred stock,
reflected in the ‘P&L Businesses’ bar and a gain from the retirement of about of $1.5 billion of
Unocal debt included in other. Absent the gain on debt retirement, the other segment’s net charges
would have fallen within the range of our standard quarterly guidance, that is, 160 to $200 million,
excluding Dynegy.
That completes our brief analysis for the quarter and now I'll turn it back to Dave.

David O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you Steve. Now, let me briefly recap our strategic progress in recent months, beginning with
the activities on Slide 13. These include, in Angola, the production of first crude oil from the
offshore Lobito Field, which together with Benguela, Belize and Tomboco comprise our 31%-owned
and operated BBLT Development. The project was on time and on budget and ramping up.
In the U.K., the production of first crude oil from our 85%-owned and operated areas sea project in
the Captain Field; in Azerbaijan, the participation in the first crude oil shipment through the BTC
pipeline in which we hold an 8.9% interest; and in Brazil, we announced our commitment to develop
the 52%-owned and operated Frade Field, our first deepwater development project in Brazil.
Continuing on Slide 14; in Nigeria, we made an oil discovery in the offshore Oil Prospecting License
214 in which our interest is 20%. In Australia, we made a natural gas discovery at Chandon-1 in
the Greater Gorgon development area. And finally, in Vietnam, the signing of a 30-year productionsharing contract with Vietnam Oil and Gas Corporation for Block 22 [Block 122] occurred.
We also announced several strategic initiatives to enhance the development of our alternative fuels
portfolio, including the creation of a biofuels business unit, the completion of the acquisition of a
22% interest in Galveston Bay Biodiesel, and a technology partnership with the Georgia Institute of
Technology to pursue alternative fuel development, in particular biofuels.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We now take your questions. One question per caller
please and we will try to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. So Matt if you would please open
the line for questions, thank you.

Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions]. Our first question is from Doug Leggate of Citigroup.
Your question please.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Good morning guys.
<A>: Hi Doug.

<Q – Doug Leggate>: Refining and marketing, I am a little confused I guess at the – what I thought
was a fairly low number, your comments about the U.S. suggest the marketing margins were
higher, can you just breakout the delta, please Steve, between quarters for marketing and maybe
try and explain if you saw the capture rate and strong margin refinement as less than it would
otherwise have been in previous quarters?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: As we look at the refining and marketing variance Doug, comparing the
second to the first quarter, we indicated that about $400 million of the – it was about $400 million of
margin improvement. Roughly speaking, about 40 or so of that was attributable to marketing. I
think inherent in your question and in doing your assessment of what the refining and marketing
improvement should be quarter-to-quarter is based upon looking at indicative margins for refining
and indicative industry margins for marketing. In the case of marketing, for example, where we
give marketing margins in the West and in the East. In the West relative to, for motor gasoline
relative to dealer tank wagon prices and in the East relative to Houston rack. You have got a mix
effect of where the locations of our actual sales are and you’ll get a, you can get some distortions
relative to those industry indicative margins. So, you have a location issue to grapple with and you
also have a mix of products. Certainly in the eastern part of the United States where we source a
preponderance of our motor gasoline from other than our refineries, their acquisition is based on
market at the time. So, it's possible that when you peer in and use indicative margins you might
otherwise assume that the domestic R&M, for example, would be – would have been higher than
we have reported.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Any – any hangover effects from hurricane cost or anything like that?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Fairly minimal, as we indicated in the release, we did continue to have, but
it was mainly upstream some charges associated with repairs and maintenance as well as the
abandonment provision that I mentioned and there is a small part still that is associated with
operations other than upstream, but by comparison, it's pretty small.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Steve, Dave here – sorry, Doug I guess is on the phone. Doug, we also did
incur expense related to hurricane preparations across the whole system in the second quarter and
we are very well prepared for the hurricane season, for example, purchasing and installing
emergency generators strategically throughout our marketing regions and quite a number of
temporary housing expenses that are incurred. Most of those are included in that $300 million, but
probably not all of them have been captured. The $300 million that we highlighted in the press
release.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Doug, one other item and for the benefit of others. In our press release
and as we have been disclosing for the last several quarters in our SEC filings effective on April 1 is
an accounting change with how certain purchase and sales contracts are handled. It has an effect
on the income statement of reducing the revenues and an exact offset on reducing purchases, so
there is no P&L effect but the volumes will change. And so, you will note in our press release, for
example, on the attachments you can get the quantification of that as it relates to refined products,
but I would emphasize there is no P&L effect, this is simply a matter of netting rather than treating it
on a gross basis. But it is something that the analyst community will need to factor into its models
going forward. Thanks very much, Doug.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question?
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon of Bernstein, your question?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi, just really going towards these abandonment costs, I was very surprised
that it wasn’t included within your interim update that such costs where coming. And are they
related to the Typhoon field, which I believe – or Typhoon platform, which I believe has been sunk
over the last quarter. And if that is the case, are you going to take any reserve write-down on that or
what is the backup or follow up plan for that field? Thanks.

<A – David O'Reilly>: Neil, I'll take that. This is Dave. We obviously would have liked to have this
in our interim update, but unfortunately the data was not available until the last few weeks and as
you know we put our interim update out about a third – end of the third week in June. The issue
does not have a reserves effect, we have already accounted for that as best we could of course at
the end of the year. It's not really got a lot to do with Typhoon. This is to do with a more detailed
subsurface analysis of the damaged facilities and wells that are going to be abandoned and the
complexity and the cost incurred in basically fully and securely abandoning those facilities. It also
meant analyzing the availability of insurance to cover those advance. And when the complete work
was done, the plan filed with the MMS and approved by the MMS and the full understanding of
what insurance was available to cover this, it became obvious that we just had an exposure here
that we had to take, because it is an abandonment charge. So, what we're reflecting here is that
new information from the last few weeks that will secure those facilities. But, they have no – it does
not involve reserve write-down, it does not involve a charge or anything related to Typhoon and
with that I – I guess -<A – Stephen Crowe>: As far as we know we've dealt with as much as we can possibly and
appropriately account for at this time.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: That's great detail. Just wanted to ask about Typhoon then. What are you –
at this stage given the fact you are ongoing with the investigations and still concluding the costs.
What are the – what should we look forward to on this field, is there a future of getting more oil out
of that field at the moment?
<A – David O'Reilly>: There is the – there obviously is the potential to recover more. We are
working on plans – we are working on plans to recover the fields that are economic to do so and we
have a multiyear plan that we will phase-in over the next few years as we put it in our project
queue. We – you’ll recall that we had about 300,000 barrels a day of production in the Gulf preKatrina, last August and we have said that this year we would achieve about 200,000 barrels a day.
25 to 30,000 barrels a day will probably not come back, it's associated with the permanent loss of
production, but the other 60 or 70,000 barrels a day we're still working on and we will continue to
work on, and if it is economic, we will continue to work at recovering it. So, we have a plan, we can't
commit to the details of that plan right now other than it is being worked.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Neil, I would – for your benefit and others I would just make a couple of
other comments. As was the question with Doug, we do have ongoing repair and maintenance
costs and the way that is accounted for is the expenses are taken as the costs are incurred. By
contrast, an abandonment provision is something that once it is estimable and probable, you have
a legal obligation to recognize it all at once. And we had had an abandonment provision associated
with the damaged structures and wells, and once we have been able to do the more detailed review
of what we found to be far more mangled and more complicated an abandonment, we needed to
have a larger provision, net of insurance, and that is why we booked it.

Your point's well taken though, that effect is worth about $0.11 per share. And likewise, the analyst
community is not in a good position to estimate the impact of the liftings patterns that I alluded to in
my comments. And that again is worth about $0.11. So, that's a $0.22 swing, which in my mind
taking that into consideration, the community out there did a pretty good job recognizing that those
two items were not knowable from your perspective. Thanks very much Neil for your call.
Operator: Our next question is from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs. Your question please.
<Q – Arjun Narayana Murti>: Thank you. My question relates to your various biofuels related
announcements. I was wondering if you could characterize order of magnitude investments you
might be making over the next several years, I presume it's a relatively small amount in light of your
overall spending. And then related to that, regarding ethanol, is your focus primarily on cellulosic
and future technologies, or would you have any interest in corn-based ethanol, especially in light of
the significant ethanol used in California? Thank you.

<A – David O'Reilly>: Arjun, a couple of points. That the investments are relatively small, we are a
major renewables producer, but most of our investments in renewables are in geothermal. And we
spend a number of hundreds of millions of dollars a year investing in geothermal growth in Asia,
primarily in Indonesia and in Philippines. Our investment in biofuels in the U.S. is relatively small.
We are focused on what we call second-generation ethanol, which is not the corn-based ethanol,
but the next-generation, which we hope will be the result of transforming some waste material or
cheaper to grow material into biofuels that's our area focus in our research work. So, the money
there is relatively small.
Now having said that, with respect to California, we are working on a marketing program for E85 in
collaboration with ethanol manufacturers and with the state of California. We are building some
service stations in California and using California State automobiles and trucks as our sample and
the idea here is to test the efficacy of E85 in California because there is some concern in the state
regulators' minds about the air pollution consequences of ethanol because it is more volatile. So we
have an active program here, which is small, but it will lead us to a more realistic appraisal of E85.
Having said all of that, 30% of our gasoline today around the United States has ethanol in it,
primarily 10% ethanol and we are, as you rightly point out a big consumer of ethanol. I think we buy
or consume about 5% of the ethanol that's produced in the United States. But our main focus is on
testing the efficacy of E85 and second-generation ethanol, in addition to the work we're doing on
biodiesel relatively small in the near-term.
<Q – Arjun Narayana Murti>: That's really helpful. Thank you David.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question is from Bruce Lanni of A. G. Edwards. Your question please?
<Q – L. Bruce Lanni>: Yeah. Good morning Dave, Steve and Irene. Just a real quick question, I
want to just get some further clarification on your production guidance because if I'm correct wasn't
it originally somewhere between 2.7 to 2.8 million barrels a day by year-end, versus the 2.6? And in
that context does that mean that you account for that you're saying the PSCs and downtime make
up the difference? Could you maybe go in that a little bit deep – more deeper…
<A – David O'Reilly>: Yeah. You're absolutely right. Our original guidance – if we go back to that
chart on – chart number 8 was for 2.7 to 2.8. In the first half of the year we achieved 2.66 about
40,000 barrels a day below that – the lower end of that band. 25,000 barrels a day of that is PSC
effects because our assumption for the pricing for the year for the purpose of calculating the
volume at that time was $55 based on the volume at the beginning of the – our assessment at the
beginning of the year. So the difference between 55 and 70 or so explains 25,000 barrels a day and
then we have some operational downtime primarily in the first quarter in places like Tengiz, which
we discussed at the end the first quarter.
In the second half of course, we're going to feel the impact of this conversion of Empresa Mixta,
which takes 90,000 barrels a day of OSA, operating service agreement, production out of our
portfolio and leaves us with about 30,000 barrels a day or so of equity crude in its place. The
financial impact of that is immaterial to Chevron because we're going to a higher margin but lower volume amount of crude there. But it does affect our volumes so while the – so the volumetric effect
here is much bigger than any of the financial effects and now we feel our second half production,
with that 90,000 barrels a day impact will be about 2.6 million barrels a day. As our production
ramps up – it continues to ramp up in places like Angola, which is in the process of increasing
production and some of the other growth activities in our portfolio. So that's how we see things
today related to the guidance that we gave you in the Analyst Meeting earlier this year.
<Q – L. Bruce Lanni>: So Dave, am I to infer then from your second half numbers where you have
the PSC royalty effects of 25,000 barrels a day, are you now assuming that the second half oil price
is going to be $70 rather than $50…
<A – David O'Reilly>: We just made a calculation that the price is what it is today and we haven't
made any assumption about it going up or down. So, we are assuming $70; and this is calculated
on a $70 basis. We had to calculate it on some basis. So we decided to stick with what we had
experienced in the first-half of the year.
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: That's perfect, thanks a lot guys.

<A – David O'Reilly>: Okay? Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks much, Bruce.
Operator: Our next question is from Nicki Decker of Bear Stearns, your question please.
<Q – Nicole Decker>: Good morning. My question is on the international upstream. On your
variance analysis in the other category, you talked about three impacts; the favorable effects and
tax items and operating costs, which included operating expense. Can you itemize those items?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, Nicki, we typically don't break out the specifics of the other in the –
for exact quantification, but I will give you a general direction here. On Slide 6, for everyone's
benefit, it was a $42 million favorable variance between quarters. You can determine from the
press release, comparing this press release to last, that the foreign exchange effect is $27 million
favorable. The tax effect is – the tax benefit effect between periods is a little more than twice that,
and offsetting those to come down to the net 42, is our higher operating expenses in the 50 to $60
million range and a smaller increase in exploration expense, after tax, in that segment. So, those
are the three main components. Again, favorable in terms of tax and foreign exchange and clawing
some of that back in terms of operating expense and exploration costs.
<Q – Nicole Decker>: Great, that's real helpful, Steve, thank you. Maybe – are those operating
costs, will they be ongoing? The higher costs?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, we are seeing increases in our cost structure. So, in all likelihood that
will be the case. But, again, the amounts that I referred to were comparisons between quarters. So
directionally, I think your presumption would be correct.
<A – Irene Melitas>: And include such things as turnaround costs as well, and maintenance. So
those would not be repeated from quarter-to-quarter necessarily.
<Q – Nicole Decker>: Can you quantify that, Irene? What portion of the 50 to 60 this quarter that
would be?
<A – Irene Melitas>: Maybe about a third.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Nicki. May we have the next call please?
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Flannery of Credit Suisse. Your question please.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Yeah, hi. I would like to look forward to say, 2008, specifically with the
Escravos project. There’s some news coming out that you may be getting some delays and or
changes in the cost structures out there. Could you just comment on what you're seeing with that
project? And more broadly, do you guys still expect roughly 3 million barrels a day of production in
2008.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well let me address the first question on our projections. As I had
mentioned in my earlier remarks, we're still holding to the guidance that we had given in March,
Mark, that we will see a greater than 3% growth in our OEG production from 2005 to 2010. Even
allowing for the impact of the chain structure in Venezuela we think that's still good guidance.
Clearly as we get later in the year and review our plans again for the analyst meeting in the early
part of next year we will update that guidance but, at this stage, that's still an appropriate
assessment. David do you want to…

<A – David O'Reilly>: I guess, just to be very specific, whether the 3 million in 2008 is – I don't
think I want to be pinpointed to that. I think our 3% per year for that period of time from '05 to 2010
is what Steve is saying and that is what we – the guidance that we gave, I think, in March. On your
other question on Escravos. The GTL – I think you're referring to the GTL project, is that correct?
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Yes, that's right.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Yes that project is underway. There’s – site clearance has been done.
There have been some delays there and there have been some concerns expressed, I have seen
in the press by reports on the part of one of the contractors. However, we anticipate that that
project is going to continue to progress. It is making progress. I think our project completion date
there is 2009. I think you might have referred to a different date, I'm not quite sure, but it is
underway and it has begun, including major equipment fabrication and site preparation. So, this is
not a theoretical one, this is actually in full swing. And it will be completed.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Okay great. Thank you very much.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Mark. May we have the next question?
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman of Benchmark. Your question please.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Folks, good morning. I noticed on the wires a story relating to the fact that
you're offering your interest in the Norefco refinery for sale. I am hoping that you can either confirm
or disaffirm that and at the same time, address the question of a broader withdrawal or divestiture
of the European downstream, given the fact that the potential sale on Norefco would further reduce
critical mass in a region where that might have been a question even before such sale?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Okay. Mark, your observation is good one. Let me clear up this issue for a
while. We are – we do not view a Europe downstream as a core part of our business. And we have
a sale underway of Hydro – our interest in Hydro Texaco, which is the marketing operations in
Scandinavia, which should be complete by the end of the year. We are entertaining offers for our
interest in Norefco and our marketing operations in the Benelux countries, which – and there’s data
room and there is activity underway currently on that front. However, Pembroke refinery is a
different kettle of fish. The Pembroke refinery is actually integrated into our Atlantic basin strategy.
And it's – a considerable portion of its production actually is targeted to North America. And there –
so, it's – we view that as a part of our strategy. So, just to clear it up, we are not planning to expand
in Europe. We are decreasing our exposure there. We think this is a good time to do that. We think
the market is suitably positioned for us to do that. But Pembroke is an important part of our
portfolio.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: If I could just follow, UK marketing, Dave, where does that fit?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well UK marketing, we have already done quite a bit to move that to third
parties. So we announced a deal last year with one of the retailers in the area, so we basically have
reduced our investments substantially in UK marketing. So while we're supplying some of that
market, it’s very regional and it helps to balance the output of the refinery so that we can swing
appropriately towards the Atlantic basin with some base offtake that's local in that market.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Thanks very much.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thanks Mark. Next question please.

Operator: Our next question is from Daniel Barcelo of Banc of America. Your question please.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Yes, good morning. Just following on the downstream theme here. Earlier
in the year you bought a 5% stake in Reliance Petroleum, just didn’t know if you could give a little
bit of a business and strategy update there, if you are still considering the option you have to
increase your stake further? And then just following on what Mark’s question was, is this signaling
any portfolio shift also away from – you answered on Europe, maybe you could comment the same
way in terms of Latin America, building towards a stronger base in your Southeast Asia position?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, let me start with the strategy. Our Asia strategy, we have been
focused on Asia downstream and focused very specifically on it since Chevron and Texaco
combined in 2001. And it is clearly a core area for our company. In the region, we are expanding
and modernizing the refinery in Korea. We increased our interest in the Singapore refinery from a
third to a half about 18 months ago. We have, also, a large and modern refinery in Thailand and our
interest in India is just a continuation of the pursuit of that strategy. We did acquire a 5% interest in
May in this new export refinery that is being built in Jamnagar. It is a 580,000 barrels a day refinery
and it will come on stream late in 2008. We have 5% and our agreement will permit us to increase
our interest to 29% and, concurrent with that supply rights and product offtake. It is in an export
zone, it's geared to the export market and we believe it will be the first big refinery to come on in
Asia. They will still come on in a timeframe where the margins are strong. So we like it strategically
and we like it economically.
And we have made good progress with Reliance, they are a good partner. We are also working
with them on pursuing opportunities in the upstream and the gas business in India and the region,
and as we mentioned in the press release that went out at the time, that we agreed to take that 5%.
So, clearly that's an area of focus for us. And Latin America, we are a very strong marketer in some
areas of Latin America. We're not in the refining business there. We're focused in places like Brazil.
We have exited, however, some of the markets particularly in the Andean region where we didn't
think we had a competitive advantage and didn't see the economic outlook. Recently, during the
quarter we exited Ecuador, for example, and we have been systematically strengthening our focus
in the Caribbean and in Central America and in Brazil in that area. So, a big focus on Asia, a big
focus on the West Coast, the US, less focus in Latin America.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you Dan. May we have the next question please?
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers, your question please.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Good morning, everyone.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Good morning, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Dave and Steve and Irene, I have two questions and a comment, if I could,
one is just want to get some, a quick number, what is the environmental charge and also the actual
under lifting impact for the quarter, as well as the 200 million of the UK tax one-time charge that you
are going to do in next quarter. How much of them is related to the deferred tax?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Let me take that question, Paul. Let me start with the second one first. As I
had mentioned we think we are going to be booking an approximate 200 million catch-up charge in
the third quarter, roughly 170 of that pertains to the deferred tax and the balance of that refers to
the first half of the year’s current tax.
<A – Irene Melitas>: 140.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: 140, excuse me.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: 140 or 170, I'm sorry?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: I misspoke; it's 140 million for the deferred tax. It's running approximately
40 million a quarter for the current tax. As to your other question, as we had shown on Slide 6, the
impact of the shift in liftings between first and second quarters was worth an approximate $240
million. The swing in liftings between the first and second quarter was roughly 80,000 barrels a day
and I think from your perspective, Paul, you can think of it it's an approximate equal amount of
under lift in the second quarter compared to the amount of overlift in the first quarter. Going
forward, at the end of June we are essentially in balance, however.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: How about the environmental charge in the U.S R&M?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: The incremental charge in the -<Q – Paul Cheng>: No, the environmental. I think you have indicated that the higher operating
expenses partly is because of the provision for the environmental charges?
<A – David O'Reilly>: We'll have to get back to you on that.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Let me see here, it's not jumping out at me right away.
<A – David O'Reilly>: In the great scheme of things it's not that material, but it is measurable.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: And if I could just one last question, then a comment. The question is that for
Dave, are you concerned that Chevron and the oil industry as a whole may have underspent on the
R&D effort? If we look at the spending by your company and the rest of the industry on R&D as a
percent whether the profit or sales volume, comparing to other industry, seems to be a pretty low
percentage. And is that a possibility that because of that underspending over time you will reduce
your competitive edge and particularly in light of more of the national oil companies enter the scene
of competition?

<A – David O'Reilly>: I think it’s the other way around, Paul. We actually have been maintaining a
considerable focus on R&D and given the commodity nature of the business and the volatility, I
don't think that R&D as a percent of sales is a good measure. I think R&D as a percent of total
capital or some other metric is probably even more appropriate and that’s something that we
monitor. You’ll recall that we had a very in-depth presentation on our philosophy and our areas of
focus on research that Don Paul gave at lunchtime following the Analyst Meeting in March in New
York City.
And we have a very unique model and we are very proud of it. We have an integrated technology
company, it is unique, it manages the whole breadth of our business from the reservoir to the gas
pump. It is a combination of focus on certain areas of proprietary research, which we guard very
carefully and focus lot of our effort on, as well as leveraging research, where we don't have all of
the expertise in one place, for example in biofuels. So, we have a good combination of proprietary
and leverage research and it is a tremendous area of focus, and I believe that for companies like
ours, it is a competitive advantage relative to NOCs, who in general do not have the same level of
experience in this area. There are exceptions, of course, but in general, I think that is a competitive
advantage.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Very good. Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question please?
Operator: Our next question is from Matt Warburton of UBS. Your question please. Mr. Warburton,
your line is open.

<A – David O'Reilly>: Could we have the next question please.
Operator: We will go over to Jennifer Rowland of JP Morgan. Your question.
<Q – Jennifer Rowland>: Thanks. I was wondering if you could comment on the integration with
Unocal, in particular your ability to retain key personnel from Unocal and also where you are in the
synergy capture?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, let's see. We are very far along – all of a – we have completed
basically all of the integration, including all the essential back office, like the financial systems and
human resources systems. So, we are very pleased with the integration. We have captured 80% of
the $325 million synergy as of mid-year and the rest of the tail has to do with some of –
implementing these detailed back office activities that will – almost all of which is captured by the
end of the year. So, we are essentially there.
We are very pleased with the performance of the assets; they are at or ahead of plan. We are very
pleased with the exploration performance: we have already had two discoveries on Unocal leases
in the Gulf of Mexico, including Knotty Head and Big Foot, and of course we have been
sidetracking Knotty Head and making I think good progress there. On the people front, I think we
have done well. Has it been perfect? No. In fact, like most companies there is a tremendous
demand for people, and it's not just a matter of demand for Unocal people, it’s demand for people
who are former Chevron or former Texaco or former Getty or whatever. So, we have the same
demands that I think everybody else feels.
Having said that though, our – we have gained in terms of population of technical people this year.
So, our net – we have had a net gain, but it is something that I think it's something that we have to
manage very carefully and one that we're focused on because it is critical to our success as it is for
many other companies. We look at our business as being – from the outside, it looks like it's very
capital intensive, but like every business it all revolves around people and the effectiveness of
people and their ability to perform and contribute. So, very, very pleased with the performance of
Unocal. Of course on a value, basis transactions today are occurring at approximately twice the
value per picture metric compared to what we acquired Unocal for last year.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Jennifer, in addition to all of the business value that Dave was alluding to,
when you see our filing, which will be next week for the second quarter Q, well, we are closing off
on the purchase accounting for the transaction itself and you will see some final information in the
footnotes just for your benefit and the investment community. So goodwill will have been finalized
and the allocations to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Thanks very much, maybe
we can take one more question.
Operator: Our final question is from Mark Gilman of Benchmark. Your question please.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Dave, real quick. Can you give us an update on the Jack production test?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Everyone asked about Jack. I really can't, I can tell you that the production
test is complete, it's being evaluated we have a number of partners that are involved in it and until
the technical work is complete, we just can't really disclose anything. I'm hoping that by the end of
the year we will have something to say about Jack, but thanks for asking.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Thanks a lot.

David O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

I would like to thank you all for participating in the call today. Should you have any other questions
Irene and the team here are ready to respond and I appreciate everyone's participation. And thank
you and I look forward to hearing you in the next call or seeing you at the next meeting. Thanks.
Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Goodbye.
Irene Melitas, Manager, Investor Relations
Goodbye.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's second quarter 2006 earnings conference
call. You may now disconnect, good day.
