Operator: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants
are in a listen only mode. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question and answer session
and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference
is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, Steve Crowe. Please go ahead sir.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thank you Matt and welcome everyone to Chevron's third quarter earnings conference call. Today
on the call I'm joined by Paul Siegele, the Vice President of our Gulf of Mexico Deepwater
Exploration; and Irene Melitas, our Manager of Investor Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2006. We'll
refer to the slides that are available on the web. Before we get started, please be reminded that
today's presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask
that you review the Safe Harbor statement on Slide 2.

I'll begin with slide 3 which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company
reported results of $5 billion or $2.29 per diluted share for the quarter. Our earnings were up 40%
compared to the third quarter 2005 as noted in the earnings press release. Third quarter results
were up 15% from the second quarter 2006, which Irene will discuss shortly.
Return on capital employed over the trailing four quarters was 23%. Our balance sheet continues
to show financial strength and flexibility. The debt ratio remained at 13% at quarter end. Our
capital and exploratory spending was $4.1 billion for the quarter. Stock repurchases were $1.4
billion for the quarter. With cumulative purchases totaling 3.8 billion, we expect to complete the
current $5 billion program by year-end. And finally, our year-to-date total shareholder return is
running about 22%.
Irene will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Irene?

Irene Melitas, Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone. My remarks compare results of the third quarter 2006
to the second quarter. As a reminder, our earnings release compares third quarter 2006 to the
same quarter a year ago.
Turning to slide 4; net income was about $660 million higher in the third quarter. Starting with the
left side of the chart, higher realizations benefited upstream results in the U.S. but were largely
offset by the effects of lower commodity prices internationally. The positive margin variance in
downstream reflects stronger marketing margins, particularly in the U.S.
Third quarter earnings benefited from higher upstream volumes, mostly due to higher international
upstream liftings. The variance in the residual other bar is the net of everything else and reflects
the absence of last quarter's $250 million abandonment charge associated with last year's Gulf of
Mexico storms as well as higher chemicals results. Offsetting these favorable variances are an
increase in environmental reserves, a negative swing in tax-related items, and other miscellaneous
items.

Slide 5 summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream earnings which were roughly $370 million
higher between quarters. Higher realizations, particularly for liquids, benefited earnings by $65
million. The $1.92 per barrel increase for liquids between quarters was more favorable than the
change in industry benchmark prices and contributed to a favorable $60 million variance between
quarters. While the average quarterly price for WTI was about flat between quarters, the Gulf of
Mexico benchmark trade month price, which is on a lagged basis, rose by $5.60 per barrel. Slightly
higher natural gas realizations resulted in a positive $5 million profit effect.
Though Henry Hub bid-week prices declined, our average realizations improved by 4 cents per
1,000 cubic feet, reflecting our regional production mix. The effects of storm recovery volumes in
the Gulf of Mexico and one additional producing day benefited earnings by $30 million. The
positive variance in the abandonment bar represents the absence of last quarter’s charge of about
$250 million for higher abandonment costs associated with structures and wells damaged from last
year’s hurricanes. The variance in other is the net of everything else and includes a favorable
swing in FAS 133 effect of about $20 million.

Turning to slide 6; international upstream earnings for the quarter were about $140 million lower
than the second quarter’s earnings. Lower realizations reduced earnings by about $45 million.
While spot Brent prices rose 33 cents per barrel, unit realizations on liquids declined by 34 cents
per barrel, reflecting country mix effects. Higher liftings during the quarter, particularly in Australia
and Azerbaijan, resulted in a positive earnings variance of $250 million. At the end of the quarter,
liftings were essentially in balance with production. The variance in tax-related items reduced
earnings by $240 million between quarters. As highlighted in our interim update for the quarter, a
negative swing primarily reflects the effects of recently enacted U.K. tax increases on North Sea oil
and gas producers as well as the net of other tax-related items. The variance in other is a net of
everything else and includes higher exploration and operating expenses.
Slide 7 summarizes our worldwide oil equivalent production volumes during the last three quarters.
The figures include volumes produced from oil sands in Canada and production under an operating
service agreement in Venezuela. Production has trended up this year, with the second quarter
volumes being 25,000 barrels per day higher than the first and the third quarter about 30,000
barrels above the second. The steady increase has occurred in both our U.S. and international
operations. During the third quarter, the volume increased in the U.S. of 4,000 oil equivalent
barrels per day was attributable to the restoration of volumes shut in due to last year’s storms in the
Gulf of Mexico. Partially offsetting this increase were the effects of maintenance activities and
normal field declines. Outside the U.S., oil and gas production increased by 27,000 oil equivalent
barrels per day in the third quarter. The improvement was driven by production in Eurasia following
an annual turnaround at Tengiz and the full quarter effect of the BTC pipeline in Azerbaijan; in
Canada, following plant turnaround at Athabasca during the second quarter; and in Angola due to
the continued ramp-up of the Benguela, Belize, Lobito fields. These increases were partially offset
by lower production elsewhere, particularly in Denmark due to seasonal requirements and a plant
shutdown.
During last quarter’s conference call, we discussed the estimated effects on production volumes for
the second half of the year arising from the anticipated conversions to Empresa Mixta in
Venezuela. The actual conversion took effect during the first half of October and is expected to
reduce fourth quarter production levels on the order of 90,000 barrels per day.
Turning to Slide 8; U.S. downstream net income rose by about $275 million between quarters, led
by stronger marketing margins, lower crude costs, and improved refinery operations. Our realized
margin effect of $260 million contributed favorably to earnings relative to the second quarter,
reflecting more robust marketing margins, particularly in the West, and the lower cost of supplying
crude oil to the U.S. refineries, including a favorable swing in final pricing adjustments for long-haul
crudes. Lower refining margins partially offset the results.

In the West, the ANS Refining indicator margin declined by $9.70 per barrel between periods, and
in the East, the Gulf Coast light-heavy differential indicator declined by $2.94 per barrel. In the
West, the Los Angeles Dealer Tank Wagon to Spot motor gasoline indicator improved $9.43 as a
decline in spot prices outpaced the decline in dealer tank wagon prices. In the East, the Houston
Rack to Spot indicator margin rose $2.35. Improved margins for aviation fuel, asphalt, and
lubricants also contributed to marketing results. The other variance reflects higher earnings in
pipeline, partially offset by higher fuel price effects and other miscellaneous items.
Turning to slide 9; international downstream earnings of $610 million were higher than the second
quarter’s by about $165 million. The realized downstream margin increased earnings between
quarters by about $100 million and was driven by improved marketing margins in most regions and
beneficial inventory effects that were partially offset by weaker refining margins. Sales volumes
resulted in a positive variance between quarters of $15 million on higher seasonal demand and less
refinery downtime relative to the second quarter. Finally, the variance in other includes higher
shipping results, improved petrochemical margins in Korea, and other miscellaneous items.


Slide 10 shows chemicals results were $168 million in the third quarter compared to 94 million in
the second quarter. Chevron Phillips Chemical Company's stronger performance for the quarter
was primarily due to higher ethylene and benzene margins. The other bar includes our Oronite
additives business whose earnings were higher in the third quarter due to improved margins and
lower non-manufacturing expenses and a favorable swing in foreign exchange results.
Slide 11 covers all other. The third quarter's variance was largely due to the absence of a second
quarter gain from the redemption of the company's investment in Dynegy’s preferred stock,
reflected in the P&L businesses bar. The variance in other is the aggregate of all other items and
includes an $80 million increase in environmental reserves, as mentioned in our interim update
guidance for the quarter. The effects were partially offset by several discrete items, including
various beneficial tax-related adjustments, favorable changes in interest income and interest
expense, and other miscellaneous items. Our third quarter interim update guidance for this
segment calls for net quarterly charges in the range of 160 to $200 million excluding Dynegy.
Actual net charges for the quarter were lower.
That completes our brief analysis for the quarter. Back over to you Steve.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks Irene. Just yesterday Chevron announced its decision to participate in the first phase of
Shell Canada's planned expansion of the Athabasca Oil Sands project in Alberta, Canada, and the
sanctioning of the Perdido regional projects in the U.S. Gulf Of Mexico's ultra-deepwater to develop
the Great White, Tobago and Silvertip fields. Earlier in the quarter, we also announced the results
of the Jack well test in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
As mentioned at the start of our call, here with us today is Paul Siegele, Vice President of our Gulf
of Mexico Deepwater Exploration, who will discuss this prospect and put it in the context of our
overall Gulf of Mexico portfolio. Paul?

Paul Siegele, Vice President, Deepwater Exploration/Projects
Thanks Steve. Let me start by saying a few words about our broader Gulf of Mexico activities
which are shown on Slide 12. The Gulf of Mexico is a core producing asset for Chevron, and we
produce 223,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, Chevron share. This position in existing
infrastructure will be an important enabler in bringing on our future deepwater production.

Chevron is the largest leaseholder in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, is currently developing our
Tahiti and Blind Faith discoveries, and as just mentioned by Steve, has recently sanctioned the
Perdido project operated by Shell. Tahiti and Blind Faith have expected first oil deliveries in, 2008
and Perdido is expected to start up around the turn of the decade. In addition to our capital
projects, we are actively engaged in appraising other discoveries, and we have key exploratory
wells to be drilled over the next several years. Our position in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico will be
an important contributor to the company's future growth.

On the next slide, turning to Jack; Chevron announced the original discovery in September 2004.
The appraisal well Jack 2 was drilled a year later in 2005. An extended well test was conducted on
the appraisal well. This test was critical because the rocks in this part of the lower tertiary have low
permeability and there was uncertainty about the flow rate. The test was conducted during the
second quarter of 2006 and was designed to evaluate a portion of the total pay interval. During the
test, the well sustained a flow rate of more than 6,000 barrels of crude oil per day. This is
encouraging news because at that flow rate the prospect of a commercial discovery is improved.
There is a lot of oil in place in the Jack structure and Chevron has a leading exploratory position in
the trend.
More than a half a dozen world records for test equipment, pressure, depth and duration were set
during the Jack test. For example, the perforating guns were fired at world-record depths and
pressures. Additionally, the test tree and other drill stem test tools set world records. The team
achieved these records with no days away from work and no spills. Our next steps are to
incorporate the flow test data into our reservoir simulations and optimize development scenarios.
This work will take the better part of next year and we also will have to decide if we will need
additional appraisal drilling to move the project forward. It is too early to set first production dates
until we complete our appraisal assessment and our simulation work. The capital required is likely
to exceed $3 billion, consistent with other Gulf of Mexico deepwater projects. Jack is located close
to the St. Malo discovery and synergistic development of both fields is a possibility.
Turning to Slide 14; Chevron is the number one operator of lower tertiary Wilcox discoveries, with
interest in 6 of 12 discoveries in the trend. The Jack well test results and evaluations are key to
unlocking the potential of this trend and Chevron is in the position to utilize these advantages in our
expansion of this emerging trend. In our estimates, the lower tertiary trend could contain 3 to 15
billion barrels estimated ultimate reserves. The lower end of that range has probably already been
discovered, leaving an upside here of over 10 billion barrels. Again, these rocks are tight. They
are buried very deeply and located a long way from existing infrastructure. The Jack well test
results, combined with Chevron's technical capabilities, will be a key to unlocking the potential of
this trend. With participation at 6 of the 12 discoveries, Chevron has built a knowledge base and a
lease base that is a leader in the industry. It is still early days with lots of work ahead of us but this
is a very exciting and promising prospective trend.
Back over to you Steve.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks Paul. Well that concludes our prepared remarks. Paul will join us for the Q&A if you have
additional questions about the Jack well test or the lower tertiary. We’ll now take your questions.
One question per caller please and we’ll try to wrap up at or before the top of the hour.
So Matt, will you please open the lines?

Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bruce Lanni from A. G.
Edwards. Your question, please.
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: Yes, good morning Steve, Paul.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning Bruce.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning Bruce.
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: Good quarter. I have – actually well I have more than one question – well let's
just ask my one question. But any thoughts about what the potential financial impact could be if
Proposition 87 is passed in California as far as on the producing assets? Have you…

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, thanks Bruce. As another Californian, I hope you will vote
appropriately come election day. For those of you who may not be familiar with it, here in the State
of California, there is a Proposition 87 that would impose up to a 6% severance tax on production
here in the state. As the largest producer in the State of California, while a lot of the particulars
concerning the actual application of this proposition have yet to be finalized we could see at current
prices and current production levels, a penalty on Chevron on the order of $200 million. The last
we have seen of the external assessments as to the status of this proposition is that it is essentially
in a dead heat.
So it's been moving back and forth between the proponents and the opponents but right now
statistically it’s too close to call. So that's one proposition that could have a bearing on Chevron.
Clearly there have been other tax effects in this high price environment over the last year that have
affected us and other companies and in differentially sort of ways. There was an increased tax in
the State of Alaska that had a fairly minimal impact on Chevron, it was effective the first of April as I
recall and there are other things that are occurring. So just to reiterate, the impact on us for the
State of California if this proposition were to pass is about $200 million. That's a before tax number
and so we will see how it plays out. Thanks Bruce for your question.
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank Securities. Your question
please.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi Steve and everyone else. Good morning to you. I'm trying to work out
how to mix my series of questions into one question but I'll give it a go.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Paul, I have every confidence that you'll be able to achieve that.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay. It's a question for Paul really and it starts firstly with more on the Great
White Project. I don't think you gave a CapEx number, if you could give us that and confirm that
you said that Jack was $3 billion in your expectations. If you could go on to talk a little bit about the
returns that you expect relative to – conventional deep water, if you will, as opposed to the ultra
deep water that we’re talking about here. And if you could then address why Trident has not been
mentioned in the development plan for Great White, that would be interesting? And finally if you
could talk about relinquishments and the potential loss of acreage from what seems to be a lower
level of exploration activity for you guys, that would be great. Thanks a lot.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well Paul, you mentioned to succeed in getting as many items as you
possibly can.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: I think it ended up not being a question after all that.
<A – Paul Siegele>: I'll tell you what. I'm going to go through what I remember.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Before turning it over to Paul, as I recall, I don't believe any development
costs has been quoted with respect to Great White and any such specifics probably should be
addressed by the operator rather than ourselves, but as to some of the other parts of your question,
I'll ask Paul to respond.
<A – Paul Siegele>: Yes. That's right. I think anything specifically about the Perdido ought to go
to Shell. The 3 billion figure, and I think it's important to state that at this point everything is still on
the table in terms of development options at Jack. So that could be something as low capital as an
FPSO early production system. The $3 billion would be kind of a standard spar, which is close to
what it's costing us at Tahiti. Returns in the ultra deep, they can still be pretty robust, although we
are seeing cost increases continuing to rise, even though crude oil prices have stabilized. So,
typically, they are still north of 20, 25%, even in the ultra deep.
As to Trident, we have two discoveries in the Perdido at Trident and Tiger, both that were not
committed to the regional host, and that was partially due to optimization for the facilities size, and
that is to say that the incremental costs to bring them on in the first phase weren’t economic. So
we are planning to bring them on later on. In fact, there is a kind of a key exploratory well to be
drilled just north of Tiger that might serve as a separate outlet for that discovery.
Did I catch everything, Paul, or was there something else?
<Q – Paul Sankey>: The final part of that single question was, well, firstly, if you could just clarify
the north of 20% that you are talking about for returns, is that off a $50 oil?
<A – Paul Siegele>: Yes. $55.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: 55. Great. The final part was that we've got this significant relinquishment
issue in the Gulf of Mexico and the tightness of rigs and the potential for you to lose acreage, I
guess, if you don't explore in the context of a very tight rig market. It will be very interesting to hear
what you have to say about that. Thanks.
<A – Paul Siegele>: Yes. We will be faced with quite a turnover in the next three years. We have
three rigs under long-term contract and we have contracted for two additional new builds. So why
we will see a lot of churn in our acreage, I'm not concerned at this point about letting good
prospects go. We will see smaller things, or things that were picked up for different trends. For
instance, in the Walker Ridge, Keathley Canyon area, a lot of that acreage was picked up for a
Miocene play 10 years ago, prior to the emergence of this lower tertiary play. So a lot of it's going
to go back into release, but it's not – we are not concerned at this time that we will not get to the
key prospects in time.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Just any observations on rig markets, and then I'll leave it. I promise that's it.
Thanks.
<A – Paul Siegele>: Well, they are tight, as you know. Particularly for this play, there's probably
only a half a dozen to a dozen in the world that can drill to these depths in these water depths. So
that's part of what led us to committing to the two new builds. But I guess what I would say is,
though it's a tight market, we feel like we've got adequate rig needs. What we really have is kind of
a short-term crunch in the next year or so, as we've got our rigs tied up with developing Tahiti and
Blind Faith. We are having to go out and do deals for the exploratory portion of our program. But
we think it's really more of a year or so, year and a half, type market for Chevron, in particular.

<Q – Doug Leggate>: Steve, I'm going to try and bolt a couple together as well and it’s basically
on production guidance. Clearly your guidance in the second quarter was 2.6 for the second half.
Now Venezuela obviously has helped you in the third quarter. With seasonal recovery in the back
end of the year, would we be right to think in the range of 2.7 for the second half? And the bolt-on is
to just bring us up to date with the key drivers for 2008 and if we could talk specifically about how
you see incremental margins changing, as let’s say we see the Tengiz sour gas project comes on
versus some of the declines that you have? Thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks. As was the case in the second quarter call, we advised that for
the second half of the year production would run about 2.6 million barrels a day, working on the
premise that the Empresa Mixtas would take effect in the early part of the third quarter. As Irene
had mentioned in her remarks, the Empresa Mixta has taken effect during the first half of October
and that's part of the reason or main reason why the production levels in the third quarter were 2.7.
The impact of the Empresa Mixtas on our OSAs at LL652 and Boscán would be about 90,000
barrels a day. So Doug, I would expect for the fourth quarter the production to be something north
of 2.6. We are seeing additional production coming on, on BBLL portion of the BBLT large project
but as close as we can measure it that would a reasonable estimate. In essence, I'm taking the
third quarter volumes and adjusting it for Empresa Mixta.
You pointed out as to next year, I think the volume projections that we see would probably still, after
allowing for the Empresa Mixtas, be not dissimilar to what we had talked about at our analyst
meeting in March. We will be – we are in the throes of reassessing the production guidance that
we will be giving for 2007 and you also had alluded to the fact that we have new production coming
on for the TCO expansion. Current indications are that that would start up for the combined two
phases of that project in the middle of 2007 and that will be a very profitable prospect. So we are
looking forward to increasing production and as we look forward, each of these large projects that
we have been talking about for the last couple of years are progressing as expected and coming on
stream. Thanks for your question. Next one please.
Operator: Our next question is from Jennifer Rowland of JPMorgan. Your question please.
<Q – Jennifer Rowland>: Thanks, I have a follow-up question on the lower tertiary. Can you give
us a sense of how active you plan to be there in ‘07 and maybe you can tell us the number of
exploration wells that you are targeting in '07? That would be helpful.
<A – Paul Siegele>: Let's see, exploration wells in ‘07. I don't have the rig-queue in front of me. I
know that there is at least one or two. I mentioned before, ‘06 and ‘07, we've got our three rigs tied
up with the developing Tahiti and Blind Faith. So we’re planning to do additional drilling at St. Malo
and Jack, although we still have to decide if that's going to be required. But for '07, I'm guessing
we'll have one or two in the lower tertiary exploration wells.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. Next question, please.
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hi. Good morning, guys.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning Paul.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: I'm wondering, Steve, can you comment that any progress in the neutral zone
northern extension. And since you guys have already sanctioned the pilot project there without an
official extension, will you be able to book any reserves?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Paul. Well, we are in the throes of negotiating with the
kingdom an extension of the project, of our concession. No reserves would be booked until that
concession has been agreed to and the extension agreed upon. But you are quite right. We are
moving forward with the pilot projects to demonstrate our capacity to increase production in the
area.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Steve, can I just ask one quick follow-up? Quick question on a different
subject?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Sure.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: You are talking about the refining and marketing. Versus the second quarter,
can you break down for us that, how much is the increase in marketing and how much is the
decrease in the refining margin between U.S. and non-U.S.?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. Chevron has one business segment that covers refining,
marketing, and transportation, and we geographically split it between the US and international. We
don't have separate segments for refining and marketing. But certainly, using indicative margins, if
you want to arrive at prices at the refinery gate, you can directionally get some flavor as to how the
refining side of the house is performing relative to the marketing side.
Looking at the U.S., for example, the refining margins, as we showed in the interim update,
narrowed during the third quarter. Simply, the product prices at the refinery gate, their decline
outpaced crude costs.
On the flip side, marketing margins would have widened in the third quarter as the product price at
the refinery gate decline outpaced the decline of the prices to our customers. That shouldn't be
terribly surprising as you would expect in a falling crude price environment, some stickiness with
the price change to our customers.
In Chevron's case, a couple of other things to keep in mind as you look at our performance, at least
in the US. We have a fair amount of long-haul, provisionally priced crudes, which, in a rising
market, penalizes results and in a declining market benefits them. We also, as mentioned on the
call last quarter, we are long in marketing relative to refining in the eastern part of the United
States.
But the key thing I really want to leave you with is the excellent operating performance that we had
at our refineries here in – around the system. In our earnings release, we commented on the fact
that for the fuel refineries in the United States, we were running at near design capacity for crude
input. Looking at a few other indicators in terms of the downstream units within the refinery, we've
seen that our refinery utilization in the third quarter of '06 has been as high as it's ever been in darn
near four years. So operating performance was a key portion to our profitability. I think, I think by
analogy you can make some similar comments looking at some of the indicator margins overseas,
but clearly they’re more dispersed markets and it's harder to make a single generalization. There
are, as we pointed out in the last conference call, problems of being, of looking at what the industry
indicator margins call for and what any one company may ultimately realize. I hope that helps for
you Paul?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Next question.
Operator: Next question is from Mark Flannery of Credit Suisse. Your question please.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Yes, hi. My question is about the UK tax changes and I am sorry if you
covered this in the prepared remarks which I missed some of that. But, other company's have
broken that number out into two or three pieces. One being the in-quarter impact of the higher
taxes, the impact on the deferred tax items, and the prior period i.e. the catch-up back to 2006,
beginning of the year. Can you do that for us so we can get better comparability between your
results and others?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Sure. Irene do you want to cover that one?
<A – Irene Melitas>: Sure. Hi Mark this is Irene.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Hi Irene.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Yes, our, what we booked in the third quarter was roughly $230 million and
that was consistent with the guidance that we had provided in our interim update. You are right that
is comprised of several different components. We did have a one time deferred tax adjustment
which was in the order of magnitude of about 130 million. And then we had a catch-up adjustment,
if you will, for the first six months of roughly 75 million and then the balance is the current tax.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Great. Thank you very much.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Sure.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Thanks Mark. Next question please.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman of The Benchmark. Your question please.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Good morning Steve, Paul and Irene. A Lower Tertiary question and then per
the rules you are allowing I want to sneak one other quick one in. There’s been no drill stem test,
extended production test at all to my knowledge in the Perdido. And, I am wondering on what
basis, given that, Paul, that you are comfortable that the permeability in that portion of the trend will
be comparable to that, that you have observed in the Jack test.
<A – Paul Siegele>: That's a great question Mark, I am glad that you asked it because I think there
is a confusion about the Perdido. The whole trend is the same age, it's Lower Tertiary, but in the
Great White area there's 100 foot interval or so that has excellent porosity and permeability, unlike
the rest of the trend. So, Jack and Saint Malo and really the greater Lower Tertiary trend is pretty
much tight everywhere it’s been penetrated. But in that Great White area there's a good porous
and permeable zone and that's serving as kind of the anchor for that development. We've had
several penetrations there and none of the partners felt that a flow test was required.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: If I could follow that for just a second. My recollection, Paul, is that there
were significant permeability oriented concerns in and around the time Unocal was drilling and
appraising Trident. So, I guess one can assume that's outside that sweet spot you allude to?
<A – Paul Siegele>: It's interesting because Trident is, I forget if it is slightly older or slightly
younger it's a different rock. It’s again still in that Lower Tertiary. But, the difference in Trident is
it’s channelized sand, which means it kind of comes and goes over the structure whereas the rocks
at Tiger and at Great White and at Tobago and the others are all kind of a blanket sheet sand and
there really isn't the same kind of a problem. That's one of the reasons why Trident didn't get into
the original commitment into the host.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Thanks, Paul. Just the one other quick one. Tengiz. It appears
there's been difficulties with sanctioning and approving the CPC expansion. And my understanding
is that it's running 80 – 85% full. What does that mean in terms of the sour gas expansion at
Tengiz when it comes on? Is there going to be room in CPC to move it, or do we go to a trains,
boats, planes, cars, and whatever else transportation alternative to move that to market?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay, thanks Mark. When the expansion comes on in the third quarter, as
I’ve mentioned, middle-to-third quarter of next year, clearly the pipeline will not have been
expanded at that juncture and we have been in continuing negotiations for quite some time to
achieve that. So, we've arranged and will be in a position to move the incremental crude out of
Tengiz much as we had done in the early days before the pipeline came on. And as you described,
we've got lots of rail cars lined up and facilities to move it to market. Thanks very much, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Thank you, Steve.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May I have the next question, please?
Operator: The next question is from John Herrlin of Merrill Lynch. Your question, please?
<Q – John Herrlin>: Yeah, thanks. Like other financial analysts, it will be multipart because I can't
count.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: John, that's all because of Paul in the beginning.
<Q – John Herrlin>: Okay.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Fire away.
<Q – John Herrlin>: With the lower tertiary, the tide portion, Paul, clearly it's got less permeability.
Do you have one interstitial cement, can you say that? And then, looking at kind of a subsurface
development, not a top-site development, how many more wells would you have in that kind of a
play versus a Miocene play, just to give us a sense of development?
<A – Paul Siegele>: Yeah, another good question. Let me make sure, I understand did you say
does it have one interstitial cement?
<Q – John Herrlin>: Well, I was wondering if you have interstitial cements whether. Do you have
any cements at all in the sands or viable?
<A – Paul Siegele>: No, the sands are well cemented. They are very fine-grained and they are
also very uniform over long, long distances. So, I guess, the answer to your question is we need
more wells than a typical Miocene play. One of the blessings of this play is the very-thick oil
column, so all you have to do is slant the wells at a high angle and you sort of get the same benefit
of the amount of surface area exposed to the rock as a horizontal well.
So, the part of what is able to overcome this lower permeability is the tremendous volume of oil
there and the tremendous rock that you have to work with. But yeah, there will be – we’ll need to
have more wells than a Miocene development. And just how many wells is kind of the key work
that we are doing now with the reservoir model. In other words, do you do a few wells in the center
as a sweet spot or do you try to get the entire fringe? Do you use horizontals? Do you use multilaterals as a – lots of different kinds of development options to consider.
<Q – John Herrlin>: Is it too early to determine the drive mechanism? Is it a water-drive or
depletion?
<A – Paul Siegele>: I don't know the answer to that.
<Q – John Herrlin>: Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, John. May we have the next question, please?

Operator: Our next question is from Daniel Barcelo of Banc of America. Your question, please?
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Yes, thank you, good morning. A question if I could on California
operations. First thing, may be just to expand a little on Prop 87 [Proposition 87]. I don't know if
you could quickly review for us your capital spending now in California? What we should think
about in terms of decline rates and then what impact if any you would think that royalties could
have on some future activity or production? And the second thing if you permit me – permit me just
on the California on downstream earnings. This quarter is clearly about marketing, particularly
obviously the West Coast. In the past, a lot of California dealers when they had some high price, it
was often followed by some longer periods of very low margins.
Sometimes I think, if I recall, even the prices inverted to spot. I didn't know if you saw a similar
situation coming up and basically what you are seeing now in terms of dealer margins in the fourth
quarter? Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, with respect to your Prop 87 [Proposition 87] related question, we – I
don't have the information that is specific to our capital spending here in the state of California but if
you want to follow-up with Irene offline, we can see what information we can provide. But typically,
we don't provide on a – from a financial disclosure point of view, that level of specificity.
In the West here in California, we really do have, at least for Chevron, very much integrated R&M
margins and with that arbitrariness that I had described earlier in response to Paul Cheng's
question, of establishing spot values at the refinery gate. From time to time, we have seen
inversions on the marketing side. They usually don't last very long as you compare, say in the case
of motor gasoline, dealer tank wagon prices to spot low gas prices but they have occurred from
time to time.
Obviously, in the recent past here, we've seen integrated margins go south as we've progressed
during the course of the third quarter and here into the early fourth quarter and that's about as far
as I'm going to take you at this point. Dan.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Thanks very much.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Next question please.
Operator: Next question is a follow-up from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers. Your question
please.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hey guys. Steve, can Irene or maybe – that give us – talking about the
international inventory benefit and also the price finalization benefit and any kind of number that
you can share? And also I think for Paul, if he can talk about, yes, the deep shelf in the Gulf of
Mexico, is that an area that you guys are interested?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, I'm not sure I fully understood your inventory question but in the
context of provisionally priced foreign crude as I had mentioned to you. Chevron acquires crude, it
runs in the 12 to 15 million barrels as I recall of on the water at any point in time and some of the
conditions call for the price to be finalized a month and a half or so after or a little more after lifting.
So, initially it's provisionally priced; then in a rising market those cargoes that are provisionally
priced will be revalued and you’ll have a higher cost. The converse happens in a falling market.
And those are some of the benefits that I had alluded to in comparing the second quarter and the
third quarter. So, with that rule of thumb that I gave you and with your taking an estimate of what
market prices might have been at the beginning of the second, beginning of the third, and now the
beginning of the fourth, you can get a rough approximation.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Steve, is most of the benefits showing up in the U.S. oil is going to be split
evenly between U.S. and international.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, the situation that I described to you Paul is all a U.S. item. It's for the
cost of goods for crude run here in the U.S.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Right, and how about the international? I thought Irene saying that the result
was also benefit from some inventory effect?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: We saw some short-term inventory swings that benefited the comparisons
between the second and the third quarter, where they were adverse in the second quarter and
favorable in the third. Again, it's a function of our inventory methodology where we value
inventories on a year-to-date average acquisition cost.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: That I fully understand but do you have a number? How much is there? Did
you say 15 million benefit, 100 million that you can share?
<A – Irene Melitas>: It’s about 100 million, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – Irene Melitas>: The variance.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Yeah.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay, may we have the next question please.
Operator: Your next question is from Jeffrey Jacobe of Fayez Sarofim. Your question, please?.
<Q – Jeffrey Jacobe>: Hi Steve, I had a quick question on the balance sheet. As of I guess
th
September 30 , you've got close to $2 billion in net cash. Any update on looking at that going
forward in terms of how you get your balance sheet more efficient?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Jeff. Over the last couple of years, as Chevron and the rest of our
industry has enjoyed high commodity prices and generated strong cash flows, we first and foremost
used those cash balances to fund this very attractive queue of projects that we have in front of us.

We've been talking about a couple of them in the Gulf of Mexico. We've also used those strong
cash balances to increase the dividend in the last three years. Earlier this year, it was for about
15.5%, a year earlier it was about 12.5% as I recall, and the year before that it was about 10%.
We've also had a first $5 billion share repurchase program that was completed in 20 months and
now a second $5 billion share repurchase program that we expect will be completed in about 12
months. Nonetheless, we still have a very strong balance sheet with 13% debt ratio and from a net
debt perspective we’re actually negative net debt. But during these periods of strong commodity
prices, we've taken advantage of the opportunity to husband our cash and keep our powder dry in
the event of needing to weather any downturns in the market or avail ourselves of any opportunity.
In that regard, I point out that an opportunity, which has proved to be extraordinarily successful was
our acquisition of Unocal about a year ago, and in effecting that transaction we issued 169 million
shares of Chevron stock. By the time we complete the current program, and looking back to the
first program, we will have issued – or repurchased a like amount of stock as a result of these two
programs that total about 10 billion. So we're comfortable with our current financial structure at this
point. We expect that the Board of Directors will consider an expansion of the current share
repurchase program which should be completed by year-end and that we will continue moving
forward to make share repurchases as the conditions warrant. Thanks very much for your
question.
Maybe we will take one more question and then wrap it up.

Operator: Our final question is a follow-up from Mark Gilman of The Benchmark. Your question,
please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Hey Steve. Would I be correct if I estimated as a result of the conversion to
Empresa Mixta in Venezuela that your non-Boscán volumes as a result of this would go up about
20 kbd? And are you still of the belief that from a profitability standpoint this conversion is a push?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Mark. When we looked at the conversion to Empresa Mixta for
Boscán and LL652, we felt that from an economic point of view, we were able to maintain value for
the company and its shareholders. The OSAs were to run another 10 years, if memory serves me
right and the Empresa Mixtas have a contractual term of 20. So we've doubled the term. We've
converted profitability on a larger number of barrels in an OSA to more profitable barrels, but a
smaller number of them as equity owner. So, we should see in the short-term lower profits as a
result of that, but an extension in terms of their duration. Overall, we think we've maintained value.
Thanks very much Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Thank you Steve.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Just in wrapping up, as I sit back and I take a look at the third quarter, I've got a few takeaways
from my perspective. I think we've seen some very solid and climbing production during the course
of the year. As a second item, I’d say that we've got – we've seen some excellent performance and
high utilization at our refineries, and that contributed greatly to our financial performance as well.
Finally, I mentioned that the Unocal acquisition that I've alluded to, which was about a year ago,
has proved to be a resounding success. And then finally, we are progressing this terrific few of
high quality projects, as has been mentioned a couple of times during the call and as we’ve
discussed previously.

So in closing, let me say to everyone, I appreciate your participation on today's call. I especially
want to thank the analysts who, on behalf of all the participants had asked questions during this
morning session. So Matt, back to you.

Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's third quarter 2006 earnings conference
call. You may now disconnect. Good day.