Operator: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome
to Chevron's Fourth Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a
listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer session and
instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is
being recorded. I would now turn the conference over to the Chairman and CEO of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. Dave O'Reilly. Please go ahead sir.

David O'Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi. Good morning and welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call. Today I'm
joined by Steve Crowe, our Chief Financial Officer and Irene Melitas, Manager of Investor
Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter of 2006 and
we will refer to the slides that are available on the Web. Before we get started, please be reminded
that today's presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. I
ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on Slide 2.

corrected transcript

I'll begin with Slide 3 which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company ended
the year with quarterly earnings of $3.8 billion or $1.74 per diluted share. Full-year results of $17.1
billion mark the third consecutive year of record earnings for Chevron.
Our fourth quarter earnings were 9% lower compared to the fourth quarter 2005, reflecting a sharp
decline in the price of natural gas in the US, which more than offset the benefits from improved
operating performance. Fourth quarter results declined by about 25% versus the third quarter of
2006, which Steve will discuss shortly.
Return on capital employed for the year was a strong 23%. The debt ratio was 13% at year-end
with net debt a negative $1.6 billion. Stock buybacks were $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter and $5
billion for the year. The $5 billion buyback program initiated in late 2005 concluded within 12
months. In December, we announced that the Board of Directors had authorized another similarly
sized follow-up repurchase program of up to $5 billion over three years. Our total shareholder
return for the year was nearly 34%.
Turning to Slide 4, our total capital spending for 2006 was $16.6 billion. Upstream spending
accounted for $12.8 billion or 77% of the total. Our cash C&E, which excludes our equity share of
affiliate capital outlays, totaled $14.7 billion for the year. Our announced capital program for 2007 of
$19.6 billion represents an increase of $3 billion over 2006. About $2 billion of the increase is
earmarked for upstream activities. More than two-thirds of that increase is attributable to the more
capital intensive phase of some of our long-term growth projects. And rising costs for materials and
services account for the balance of the increase.
Steve will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Steve?

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks Dave. My remarks compare fourth quarter results to those of the third quarter. As a
reminder, our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2006 to the same quarter a year ago.
Turning to slide five. Fourth quarter net income was about $1.2 billion lower than our quarterly
record set in the third quarter. Starting with the left side of this chart, significantly lower oil and gas
prices adversely affected upstream results worldwide. Weaker refining and marketing margins,
particularly in the US and Europe, reduced earnings nearly $500 million. Fourth quarter earnings
benefited from higher international upstream liftings. The variance in the residual other bar is the
net of everything else.
Slide six summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which declined about $380 million
between quarters. Lower realizations, primarily for liquids, reduced earnings by $300 million. The
$11 per barrel decrease in crude realizations was generally higher than the change in industry
benchmark prices and accounted for $295 million of the variance between quarters. While the
average quarterly price for WTI declined by $10.58 per barrel between quarters, the Gulf of Mexico
benchmark trade month price, which is on a lag basis, declined more steeply. The volume effect of
higher planned project activity, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, reduced earnings by $10 million.
Other mostly reflects higher exploration expense.

Turning to slide seven. International upstream earnings were about $210 million lower than the third
quarter's. Lower oil and gas prices reduced profits by about $575 million. Unit realizations on liquids
declined by $10.13 per barrel, in line with the drop in spot Brent prices. Higher liftings during the
quarter, particularly in Kazakhstan, Venezuela, Canada, Indonesia and the UK resulted in a positive
earnings variance of $185 million. Tax-related items benefited earnings by $200 million between
quarters. This reflects the absence of the third quarter's one-time catch-up effects for the UK tax
increase on North Sea oil and gas producers. The variance in Other reflects higher exploration and
operating expenses, partially offset by a favorable swing in foreign exchange and other items.
Slide 10 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes
produced from oil sands in Canada. Daily volumes were down 45,000 barrels between quarters.
During the fourth quarter, US production declined 9,000 barrels per day as the impact of higher
planned project activity and normal field declines exceeded the volume benefits from continued
storm-related restoration efforts in the Gulf of Mexico.
Outside the US, oil and gas production decreased 36,000 barrels per day between quarters. The
decrease was driven by the conversion to Empresa Mixta in Venezuela, which took effect in
October. This decrease was partially offset by higher production elsewhere, particularly in
Kazakhstan following the completion of an annual turnaround that commenced in the third quarter.
Looking ahead, worldwide oil equivalent production in 2007 is expected to average around 2.6
million barrels at current price levels. The change relative to full-year 2006 volumes is attributable
to the full-year effect of the Empresa Mixta conversions in Venezuela. The benefit of new project
start-ups and ramp-ups are expected to largely offset normal field declines.
The actual production will depend on many factors including possible disruptions to operations
caused by weather or unrest, the effect of production quotas imposed by OPEC, the effect of price
changes on cost recovery volumes under certain production sharing contracts or any other
disruptions to our daily operations.
Turning to slide 9, the US downstream results in the fourth quarter declined by about $490 million
relative to the prior quarter's record earnings. The decrease was driven by weaker refining and
marketing margins and the effect of a 75-day planned turnaround at the Pascagoula refinery, which
decreased production of high-value products.
Lower realized margins reduced results by $420 million relative to the third quarter, particularly in
the West. In the West, the ANS refining indicator margin improved by $1.19 per barrel between
periods. However, as noted in our interim update, we did not benefit to the full extent suggested by
the variance given the mix of crudes run at our West Coast refineries.

In the East, the Gulf Coast light-heavy differential indicator declined by about $6.50 per barrel. In
the West, the Los Angeles dealer tank wagon to spot mogas indicator fell sharply by $6.76 per
barrel as the decline in DTW prices outpaced the decline in spot product prices.
In the East, the Houston Rack to Spot indicator margin decreased by $2.67 per barrel. Lower
margins for aviation fuels and asphalt also affected marketing results. Lower volumes reduced
earnings by about $20 million. A seasonal decline in the production of asphalt and lower lubricant
sales contributed to the decrease. The other variants reflects reduced earnings in pipeline along
with other miscellaneous items.
Turning to Slide 10, international downstream earnings of about $610 million were unchanged from
the third quarter's. Realized downstream margins decreased earnings between quarters by about
75 million, led by lower refining and marketing margins in Europe, in line with the fall in indicator
margins. The other bar includes a favorable variance in tax-related items.
Slide 11 shows chemical results were $124 million in the fourth quarter compared with $168 million
in the third quarter. Results for olefins declined on lower ethylene and polyethylene sales volumes
and margins. Lower additives earnings were largely due to lower volumes and higher nonmanufacturing expenses, and the variance in other includes a fourth-quarter asset write-off.

Slide 12 covers all other. The negative variants in the P&L businesses reflects lower results
associated with the company's investment in Dynegy and lower seasonal results from our power
operations. The other bar reflects the aggregation of taxes booked at the corporate level, along with
other miscellaneous items. Our standard guidance for this segment calls for net quarterly charges
in the range of 160 to $200 million, excluding Dynegy. Actual fourth quarter net charges were at the
lower end of that guidance.
That completes our brief analysis for the quarter and back over to you, Dave.

David O'Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks Steve. Turning to Slide 13, let me recap our strategic progress in recent months and then
I'll take your questions. Let's begin with the upstream. In Angola, we announced the production of
first crude oil from the Landana North reservoir in the 31% owned and operated Tombua-Landana
development, our third deepwater development in Angola. This project is expected to reach
maximum production levels of about 100,000 barrels per day in 2009. And just last week, we
announced a significant oil discovery at the 31% owned and operated Lucapa-1 well in deepwater
Block 14. Appraisal drilling and additional geologic and engineering studies will follow to asses the
potential reserves.
We discovered natural gas at the 67% owned Clio-1 exploration well offshore northwestern
Australia, further building on our leading natural gas resource position there. In downstream, we
announced the completion of the fluid cat cracker expansion project at the Pascagoula refinery in
Mississippi. The expansion increases our gasoline manufacturing capacity there by about 10%. We
also submitted an environmental permit application for the construction of facilities that would
increase gasoline output there by a further 15%.
Turning to Slide 14, our preliminary estimate of 2006 reserve additions is shown here and equates
to approximately 101% of worldwide equivalent production during the year. This represents an
addition of about 950 million oil equivalent barrels for a total year-end crude reserve of 12.1 billion
barrels, a strong organic growth year. Approximately 30% of the added reserves were associated
with the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in Canada. The crude oil extracted bitumen- mining operation
is not considered to be an oil and gas producing activity by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Excluding the oil sands volumes, the company's proved reserves additions in 2006
equated to about 70% of oil equivalent production.
Additional details will be available in the Form 10-K that we will file with the SEC on March 1 and of
course we'll discuss it in more detail also at our mid-March analyst meeting in New York.
Turning to Slide 15, 2006 was a year of record earnings, the attainment of several significant
milestones, the completion of the integration of the former Unocal operations, improved operating
performance and excellent shareholder returns. And as we enter 2007, we look forward to a year of
further accomplishments.

That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now take your questions. One question per caller
please. We plan to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. So, Matt, would you please open the
lines for questions? Thank you.

Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Herrlin of Merrill
Lynch. Your question, please?
<Q – John Herrlin, Jr.>: You spent 12.8 billion in upstream. Could you give us a sense of how
much was spent on the Oil Sands?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Very, very little in 2006 because that project was primarily in the engineering
phase. So we estimate our share of expenditures during this phase of expansion is about $2 billion
and that expenditure will occur over the next three years.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: John, this is Steve. We expect that in 2007 spending relative to 2006 for
the Athabasca expansion will be our share on the order of 300.
<Q – John Herrlin, Jr.>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks John. May we have the next question?
Operator: Next question is from Dan Barcelo of Banc of America. Your question, please.

<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Yes, good morning. Thank you. There appeared to be a lot of willing buyers
of refining assets, especially in the US. I didn’t know if you could just give us a quick update on your
plans for your downstream in Europe, in Latin America and also just an update on Asia with
particular reference to India.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thank you. Well, we like our position in refining in North America. We have
a very strong position in 3 – particularly in 3 major refineries, two in the West Coast. We also got
one in Richmond and Pascagoula, Mississippi.
In Europe, we are marketing our share of the Nerefco Refinery in The Netherlands. And that – we
expect that we will complete a transaction there this year. So that is in the process of being
negotiated. And we also have plans to exit our marketing operations in the Benelux area. You’ll
recall that last year we exited the marketing joint venture we participated in Scandinavia.
In Latin America, we’re really not in the refining business; we’re in the marketing business. And we
are pretty selective about where we participate, our strongest operations being in the Central
America area.
In Asia, which we like very much for the long-term, we are strengthening our position there. We
upped our share of ownership in the Singapore refinery a couple of years ago to 50% and we have
taken 5% interest in a refinery that Reliance is building in India. That is under construction and on
or ahead of schedule, and we have an opportunity to increase that from 5 to 29% once the refinery
is complete.
We also have a major expansion underway in our Korean refinery, our joint venture refinery with
GS, Goldstar. That is geared to – and it’s under construction; it will finish at the end of this year.
And it’s geared to allow the refinery to run heavier, sourer crudes and increase light-product
production. So we have a lot of activity underway and I hope that addresses your question, Dan.
Thank you. Next question.
Operator: Our next question is from Nicole Decker of Bear Stearns. Your question, please?
<Q – Nicole Decker>: Good morning, Steve and Dave. Wondering if you could give us an update
on your exploration and your appraisal program in the Gulf of Mexico?

<A – David O'Reilly>: Yes. We’ll obviously cover this in more detail next month. In fact, Bobby
Ryan, our Exploration General Manager, will be there with us and making a presentation in a lot of
detail. Globally, we’ve had another very successful year. We’re meeting all of our metrics in terms
of reserves, resource base added.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we have a number of developments underway, which I think
you’re aware of, but Tahiti and Blind Faith, which will augment our position in the Miocene trend.
The Wilcox trend is the area that we’ve been doing the most interesting work in, and that’s Jack
and Saint Malo. You’ll recall we’ve made a significant discovery in both of those areas on the same
trend. We’ve had a very successful well test at Jack, which has been well documented, and we’re
going to continue to pursue the appraisal and develop plans to develop those assets. We have an
active exploration program in both of the trends that I talked about and a very strong lease position
in both, and you’ll hear more of the details of that next month.
Our success rate continues to be very good. And as you saw from our comments earlier, we’ve
continued to have success in Angola and in West Africa in general. So our focused exploration
program I think is paying off very well.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Nicki, you’ll hear a good deal more about exploration because we’ve had
such great success over the last few years. Bobby Ryan will be covering that in some detail at our
March meeting in about 6 weeks.
<Q – Nicole Decker>: Thank you.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Nicki. May we have the next question?
Operator: Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Citigroup. Your question please?
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thanks. Good morning, Dave, Steve and Irene.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Good morning, Doug.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: My question is on OPEC exposure. Obviously, there has been a great deal
of news on a number of fronts lately. You mentioned cuts are factored into your targets for this
year. So I wonder if you could talk a little bit about that, but also about how you see Angola’s entry
to OPEC potentially impacting your business, what the situation is currently in Venezuela? And
finally on the -- there’s been some news on the wires that Kuwait may be looking to change things
in the Neutral Zone, and I just wonder if you could comment on whether there is any movement
there as you see it? Thanks.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, more than one question, Doug, but I’ll do my best. First of all, let me
just kind of put it in perspective in broad terms. If you just look at our international oil production
overall, our international production, 20 to 25% of that is in countries that are OPEC affiliated,
roughly. I’m just giving you rough numbers to put it in perspective. 75% of that roughly lies outside
OPEC. So far the OPEC cuts that have been made have had an impact of less than 10,000 barrels
a day net to us. But it’s very uncertain. Obviously, this could impact us somewhat more over the
next year depending on what happens with total supply and demand. So the impact has been very
minimal so far. And I think – the fundamentals I think suggest that it’s very hard to make a judgment
about this until after we get through the second quarter period which is typically a period of
weakness before the demand builds up in the northern hemisphere in the summer. So we have
expressed some reservations about the impact, but so far it’s been minimal.

Angola joining OPEC, which they did effective January 1, doesn’t have a near-term impact in our
view because it’s clear that it isn’t going to impact their production and they’re going to be
apparently allowed to phase-in for some period of time before they become a full member in terms
of participating in OPEC production. But, however, I don’t view that this will be a significant impact
either. All of our projections suggest that within a few years, we will need more OPEC production.
And it doesn’t seem to me that this is something that we should be too concerned about. Our
investments there are made over the very long term. We’re looking at assets that have lives that go
20 years and 30 years. So taking account of – I think OPEC would be a minor impact.
You asked briefly about Kuwait and the Neutral Zone, really what we do in the Neutral Zone is we
operate on behalf of the Saudis in the Neutral Zone, not in partnership with the Kuwaitis. So our
operations there are representing the Saudis and we are in the process of renegotiating our
concession there with the Saudis, which will expire in a few years time. And that negotiation is
underway and we’re optimistic that it will be completed successfully and that will be there for the
long-term. That’s an area in which we’re demonstrating some pretty significant new technology in
steam flooding in the Eocene, which is a very – which hasn’t been demonstrated yet, but after our
successes in places like the Jack development I’m confident that we’re going to develop success
there as well. I think that covered all your questions, I hope. Thank you. Next question please.


Operator: Next question is from Neil McMahon of Sanford Bernstein. Your question please?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi. Good morning. It’s really a question about the US upstream earnings in
the fourth quarter. It looks like – you did mention there was higher depreciation, et cetera. Plus it
seems like you had a bit of a spike, maybe an end-year true-up in terms of exploration costs which
look high. So sort of really 2 things. One, could you go into the detail on what caused US earnings,
especially on a dollar per barrel basis, to decrease in for the fourth quarter? And what should we be
looking at given your exploration program for guidance in terms of exploration expense next year?
Same as 2006 or higher as a relationship to a higher CapEx getting thrown into exploration?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you Neil. Let me deal with the capital expenditure portion first. In
2006, our exploration expenditures ran on the order of 2.3 billion and that was higher than we had
originally anticipated coming into the year. But it reflected certainly the heated market for drilling
rigs and oilfield services, but also a lot of increased activity including appraisal drilling following up
on our exploration success that Dave had mentioned. So looking at the expenditures and at least
initially comparing 2007 projections relative to 2006 we think it’s going to be down a couple of
hundred million dollars between years in terms of our spending level between periods.
With regards to the cost structure, I don’t have the per barrel amounts with me on the call here right
now, but Irene will be happy to give you that detail offline. But as to your question referring to the,
say, the comparisons of the fourth quarter to those of the third for US upstream, in that chart 6
where we showed a variance between quarters of $73 million in the – between quarters in that
other bar, the lion’s share of that difference is associated with higher after-tax exploration expense.
The net of all those other things that are in such a large business as ours including DD&A and FAS
133 and equity income from cogen [cogeneration] operations and the like, essentially all more or
less netted against one another. You’ll see then in the supplements to the investor relations
material that was sent out the quarterly pattern throughout the year. Thanks very much Neil. May
we have the next question?
Operator: The next question is from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company. Your question
please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Dave, Steve, Irene, good morning.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning.

<A – David O'Reilly>: Good morning.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: I guess I’m a little bit surprised guys by the 2007 production number, a little
bit weaker frankly than what I was looking for. Could you clarify what you’ve included for OPEC
cuts and what is serving to offset the gains that ought to be otherwise expected in West Africa and
particularly with the startup of Tengiz Phase II, which perhaps is being delayed somewhat and thus
explains the flat year-over-year comparison.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks very much Mark. Let me begin by giving you just some numbers
for orientation and then Dave can follow up with a little – a broader perspective. Starting with the
full-year 2006, our OEG production was 2.666 million barrels per day. The main reason for the
decline from 2006 into 2007 is associated with the full-year impact versus the partial-year effect of
the conversions of Empresa Mixta from the OSA’s to equity ventures. That’s worth about 64,000
barrels a day. The balance then essentially net against one another and what it includes are major
capital project ramp ups and major capital project start-ups in 2007, which are largely offset by the
net declines in the operations. These would be normal field declines net of workovers, development
and delineation. Some of the ramp-ups that we’re seeing in 2007 will be the continued ramp-up of
BBLT as well as the ACG operations in Azerbaijan.


Later on in the year, we also see start-ups occurring in 2007, including the TCO expansion and
maybe some increased operations in Asia. So that’s the broad view. It’s essentially then the impact
of Empresa Mixta is the main driver.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Let me just add a little bit, Mark. One of the issues that we’re equivocating
here a little bit about is the timing of Tengiz. We had, as you’ve probably seen in the press, a labor
dispute that disrupted – it didn’t disrupt our ongoing operations but some of the construction. We
are clarifying what the time impacts of that will be and I hope we’ll have a much better picture on
that in the March meeting to give to all of you. So if you could just hold that thought until we see you
in mid-March I think we’ll have better information.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Dave, if you could just clarify what’s in there for OPEC cuts?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, it’s really – we didn’t really put anything specific in there, Mark. It’s just
an acknowledgement that it could impact our business and I mentioned so far – as I mentioned
earlier, so far the impact has been in the order of less than 10,000 barrels a day.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Thanks very much.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Mark. Can we have the next question?
Operator: Your next question is from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers. Your question please?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. Good morning everyone.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Paul.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Good morning, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Dave and Steve and Irene, last year in your analyst meeting you gave a very
good information about success on your exploration program, how much is the resource base that
you add to that program? Wondering if you can give us a preview, what is the program data in 2006
and then maybe I’ll try to fit in into one question. If you can also give a update about the project for
Tahiti, Agbami, and Gorgon, the update?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Okay. So the Tahiti, Agbami and Gorgon?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Right. And also with that, the exploration success that what is the resource
addition that because of that...
<A – David O'Reilly>: Okay. Well, I can say that the resource additions for the year are going to be
in excess of 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent and we’ll have more detail on that. That represents
another very successful year with the drill bit and will be our fifth successive year of averaging
above a billion barrels of resources. So it’s a strong year, but as I mentioned, Bobby Ryan will be
providing a lot more detail on this in the meeting in March.
You asked about 3 projects and how they’re doing. Let me start with Tahiti. Tahiti has been doing
development drilling. The top sides and all of that work is underway and we anticipate that it will
start up in 2008, on schedule, and no reason to believe that there is anything that would prevent
that from occurring. To date everything has been successful including the work in the yards as well
as the work in the fields.

Agbami is also doing well. There’s been a lot of drilling activity, both on the production wells as well
as the injector wells. The FPSO, which is one of the biggest FPSOs built, is being built in Korea and
it’s well on schedule and will probably sail in the third quarter of 2007 for positioning somewhere in
its location in Africa and Nigeria. So it’s also on schedule.
Gorgon, there were a number of hurdles in Gorgon, which had to be resolved. And one of them was
resolved in the last few months and that is the Western Australia Government’s approval for the
environmental permit. That was granted. You will recall that the EPA there had lodged an objection.
We filed an appeal and the appeal was successful and those issues are on the way to being
resolved. We are also required to get federal permits, but now that the state has approved we are
confident that within sometime in the second quarter we should be able to complete the federal
permits. The third issue was cost. Like many of these projects, we’re seeing cost challenges and
cost escalation. So we and our partners are working together to looking at how we might optimize
the design and the construction of the facility to improve the economics, and that work is underway
and probably will be complete also somewhere in the second quarter.
So we have work underway here. So two of the projects are on plan and the other one is still in the
engineering and permitting phase.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: So, Dave, if that means Gorgon is a possibility we may see a project extension
of an FID sometime in the second half?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, it’s possible, but I think it all depends on the issues that I’ve just
mentioned. I might – and let me just add that in our reserves bookings this year there are no new
LNG projects that have been booked in any of those numbers. That’s a very broad-based reserve.
So in my mind, if I looked at the queue here, I would think that Angola LNG will come first in the
early part of this year and if we meet all of the objectives that we have set out for the Gorgon
project, it would be later in the year. But again we have work to do.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay, thank you.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Paul.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Next question?
Operator: Our next question comes from Bernard Picchi of Wall Street Access. Your question
please.
<Q – Bernard Picchi>: Yes, my question is on Venezuela, which is certainly very topical. Can you
brief us on your discussions with the Venezuelan government on their stated goal of achieving a
minority interest in the Orinoco leases including Hamaca? And how much cash flow is at risk to
Chevron there? And relatedly, what are you doing in Plataforma Deltana and elsewhere in terms of
discretionary spending in Venezuela?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, let me just talk about Venezuela overall, Bernie. First of all, we read
this morning that the government has declared or President Chávez has declared that he would like
to have a new arrangement in place in the Orinoco projects, of which there are four by May 1. That
means there will be a period of negotiation and it’s very hard to speculate during a period about
how that will turn out. So I’d rather not speculate, but just let us update you as we make progress
and know what the outcome is.

As for our other operations in Venezuela, we converted Boscán to an Empresa Mixta. We did that
very successfully and we were able to preserve value and extend the life of the contract in doing
that. So you can negotiate there on the basis of a reasonable dialogue and I’m hoping that we’ll be
able to do that in the Orinoco as well, although I don’t want to speculate without having gotten
there.
You asked about discretionary expenditures. There are no other major expenditures at the moment
because everything else we have in the portfolio there, including Plataforma Deltana, is really at the
very early phase of evaluation still. So the big issue is the resolution of Hamaca. I’d rather not
speculate about the impact on cash flow or any other metrics because I think it’s something that is
commercially important to us and it’s better not to speculate until we’ve actually resolved the issue.
Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks Bernie. May we have the next call please?
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon of Sanford Bernstein. Your question please.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: I’ve been very good and queued up again. Just a question really looking at
new areas that you look like you’ve been active in. First of all, could you give me an update on what
really got signed with the Gazprom agreement that came out last month or at least the
announcement? And secondly, you didn’t seem to be all that active in the Indian licensing round
that happened late last year, maybe just an update on your MoU with Reliance in India in upstream.
Thanks.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Let me deal with the latter one first. We have – in the last round in India, we
were not active. We put it through the evaluation process. The opportunity in those leases –
through our opportunity process or evaluation process that we use to identify areas that are
attractive and a priority, and it didn’t – the opportunities there did not meet our criteria and it’s
because of those criteria and the rigid application of them that I think we’ve been successful in the
places in which we have been exploring. So it just didn’t meet our criteria for exploration.
Now that has not in any way adversely impacted our relationship with Reliance. We’re still working
with them obviously in the refinery as I mentioned earlier, and we’re also pursuing other
opportunities to partner across the full value chain. And that – I think they are good partners and
we’re very pleased to be affiliated with them in India and perhaps even in other areas where we
have common interests.

You asked about Gazprom, we have a joint venture with Gazprom Neft in Western Siberia. It’s an
exploration joint venture on leases that have recently been extended. It’s relatively modest and it’s
a – I don’t want to speculate about how successful it will be, but it’s – we think it’s a good start and
we’ll see what it leads us to. But it’s early days yet in that opportunity. Thank you.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next caller, please?
Operator: Our next question comes from Dan Vetter of JPMorgan. Your question please?
<Q – Daniel Vetter>: Yes. Could you provide us with an update on the Bibiyana gas field in
Bangladesh? And secondly, can you talk about your major sources of reserve bookings in 2006?
Thank you.

<A – David O'Reilly>: Okay. First of all, on Bibiyana, the work is essentially complete. In fact, I
think it – our plan is to start it up this quarter. It might have started up sooner, but there have been
civil challenges there, not around our fields, but in delays through the ports because of the elections
that are ongoing, which have delayed some of the access to some of the equipment that we need.
But the project is essentially complete and we anticipate within the next few months that we will be
starting up.
I’m going to defer on the second question because I think you’re going to see a lot of detail on our
reserves. I’m confident that the aggregate numbers that I’ve given you are correct. I am also
confident that there are no new LNG projects booked, but the numbers that we quote in aggregate
are preliminary and you will see them in detail in our 10-K in early March, and we’ll be talking about
them in more detail at our March analyst meeting. I can say, though, that they are broadly
distributed across the organization in many locations, and that it was a very good organic year for
Chevron. Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question?
Operator: Our next question comes from David Wheeler of Neuberger. Your question, please?
<Q – David Wheeler>: Hi, Dave, can you tell us what the bite out of reserve replacement was from
Venezuela?
<A – David O'Reilly>: Well, there was no bite because you’ll recall that our – that the Empresa
Mixta conversion at Boscán was a – we were converting from an operating services agreement to
an equity agreement. So actually the impact on reserves in Venezuela is a positive one and not a
negative one.
<Q – David Wheeler>: Okay. Thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next caller, please?
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company. Your
question, please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Dave, Steve, just two very specific things. Were there any LIFO-related
earnings in the international downstream? Those kinds of things tend to occur potentially at yearend. And secondly, the international exploration expense number in the fourth quarter was to say
the least very high. Are there any larger specific write-offs that were included in that number?

<A – Stephen Crowe>: As to the exploration expense, there weren’t any – there was a lot of
activity as I described through the context of our expenditures, but there wasn’t a specific item that
at this juncture we’re disclosing as being unique. But there was a lot of activity flowing from our
other successes. As far as LIFO is concerned, Irene do you have anything on that?
<A – Irene Melitas>: Yes, both the US and the international segments had some adjustments,
Mark. On the US side, it was fairly minimal on the negative, but nonetheless minimal. It was 10 to
15. For the international, there were also some LIFO effects on the positive, a little north of 50.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Thanks Mark. We’ll take one more question please.
Operator: Our final question today comes from William Ferer of W. H. Reaves & Company. You
question please?
<Q – William Ferer>: Good morning. You almost shut it off correctly.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: You just snuck in, Bill.

<Q – William Ferer>: Yes, I know. It’s the story of my life. You discussed, gave us a good rundown
on R&M asset sales. Could you discuss any opportunities that you might see on the upstream
asset sales and further could you discuss your other businesses, Dynegy and the like, do you see
any opportunities to dispose of assets at this point in time? Thanks very much and good morning to
you.
<A – David O'Reilly>: Okay. Well, Bill, we’ve – the ones I discussed were ones that are in the
public domain on the downstream and that’s why I could be very specific. On the upstream, we
periodically find assets in our upstream portfolio, as you know, that don’t fit or have matured to the
point that we don’t think we can add value. And under those circumstances we sell. But I can’t
speculate about that for this year. As far as the rest of the portfolio is concerned, we have – I’m not
in a position to speculate either. So I think I’d prefer to pass on that and just stick with the answer
that I’ve given you that the ones that we’ve talked about that are in the public domain.
So just as a general comment, our ongoing asset sales last year were somewhat lower than typical
and we would expect that we would be much closer to the typical range which is in the 1 to $3
billion range for the year 2007. Thank you for the question.

David O'Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I think we’re going to conclude the call. We promised we’d get out of here before the top of the
hour. And Matt, thank you for having today’s call. Thank you for all participating on today’s call. And
I look forward to seeing you at our upcoming Security Analyst Meeting in New York next month.
Thank you all.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s fourth quarter 2006 earnings conference
call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect. Good day.
