Operator: Good morning, my name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome
to Chevron’s first quarter 2007 earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions]
I will now turn the conference over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Matt. Welcome to Chevron’s first quarter earnings conference call. Today on the call
I’m joined by Irene Melitas, Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s
financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2007. We’ll refer to the slides that are
available on the web.
I remind you that today’s presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking
statements and ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on slide 2.

I’ll begin with slide 3, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company
reported earnings of $4.7 billion for the quarter or $2.18 per diluted share. Earnings were up 18%
from the first quarter a year ago, reflecting a $700 million after tax gain on the sale of our interest in
the Nerefco Refinery in the Netherlands and higher margins on refined products worldwide. These
benefits were partially offset by the effect of lower prices for crude oil and natural gas on upstream
profits. First quarter results were 25% higher than the fourth quarter 2006, which Irene will discuss
shortly.
Return on capital employed for the trailing four quarters was 23%. Now the debt ratio was about
12% at quarter end. Earlier this week, we announced an 11.5% dividend increase, raising our
quarterly dividend to 58 cents per share. 2007 marks the 20th consecutive year that the company
has increased its annual dividend payout. Share repurchases totaled $1.25 billion, the same
quarterly pace as in 2006.
Slide 4 highlights some of the milestones we achieved in recent months. Starting with upstream,
last month we announced the startup of our Bibiyana natural gas field in Bangladesh. The field is
initially expected to produce 200 million cubic feet of natural gas per day, rising to 500 million cubic
feet per day by 2010. Exploration success continues with the announcement of two deepwater oil
accumulations in the northern part of the Republic of Congo Moho-Bilondo permit. Chevron’s nonoperated interest is 31.5%. Evaluation and development option studies are underway.
In the downstream, we announced the sale of our 31% interest in the Nerefco refinery in the
Netherlands. The transaction closed at the end of March and was part of our portfolio
rationalization efforts highlighted during the March analyst meeting.
Irene will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Irene?

Irene Melitas, Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare first quarter results to those of the fourth quarter 2006. As a
reminder, our earnings release compared first quarter 2007 to the same quarter a year ago.
Turning to slide 5, first quarter net income was about $940 million higher than the fourth quarter’s
results. First quarter earnings benefited by $700 million from the sale of our interest in the Nerefco
refinery in Europe as indicated in our interim update for the quarter. Volume effects reduced
earnings by $175 million and were primarily attributable to lower listings in Canada and production
in the US. A decrease in exploration expense contributed favorably to the quarter’s results. The
other bar reflects a positive swing in tax related items, lower operating expenses, and the net of
everything else.
Slide 6 summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which declined by $90 million
between quarters. The benefit of higher natural gas realizations were partially offset by lower
liquids realizations and netted to a $20 million improvement in earnings. The $1.38 per barrel
decrease in crude realizations was generally smaller than the decrease in industry benchmark
prices. While the average price for WTI declined by $1.89 per barrel between quarters, the Gulf of
Mexico benchmark trade month price, which is on a lagged basis, declined by about 95 cents per
barrel.
Higher natural gas realizations resulted in a $50 million profit improvement. Though Henry Hub bid
week prices improved by 24 cents per 1,000 cubic feet, our average realizations improved 50 cents
per 1,000 cubic feet, reflecting our regional production mix and spot sales. Volume effects
associated with third-party pipeline disruptions in the Gulf of Mexico and San Joaquin Valley and
two fewer producing days reduced earnings by $65 million. Other primarily reflects an unfavorable
variance in FAS 133 effects, which was partially offset by lower exploration expenses and other
items.

Turning to slide 7, international upstream earnings were about $90 million higher than the fourth
quarter’s. Lower oil prices reduced earnings by about $35 million and were partially offset by
higher gas realizations. Unit liquids realizations declined by 62 cents per barrel, less than the drop
in spot Brent prices due to country mix effects. Lower listings in Canada resulted in a negative
earnings variance of $100 million. A decrease in exploration expenses benefited earnings by $155
million. The variance in Other includes lower operating expenses between quarters.
Slide 8 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced
from oil sands in Canada. Daily volumes were down by 12,000 barrels between quarters. During
the first quarter, US production declined 14,000 barrels per day due to third party pipeline
disruptions affecting the Gulf of Mexico and San Joaquin Valley and natural field declines. Outside
the US, oil and gas production was relatively flat between quarters. Production increases in the
United Kingdom reflect the absence of downtime at Britannia during the fourth quarter. This
increase was offset by lower production in Canada due to unplanned downtime at Hibernia.
Turning to slide 9, US downstream results in the first quarter were slightly higher than the prior
quarters. Lower realized margin effects of about $85 million adversely impacted earnings relative to
the fourth quarter. This was primarily due to the effects of the Richmond refinery crude unit
turnaround which was extended by repairs associated with the fire. The unit was down for most of
the quarter, which prevented the company from capturing the improved West Coast refining
margins. Refining margins were also dampened by supply effects during the quarter.
Marketing margins were lower on the West Coast. Weaker asphalt and lubricants margins also
affected the quarter’s results. Somewhat offsetting these lower margin effects were improved
refining and marketing margins in the East. The Other variance includes lower expenses at the
Pascagoula Refinery following the fourth quarter’s FCC shutdown and expansion project and other
miscellaneous items.
Turning to slide 10, international downstream earnings of about $1.3 billion were substantially
higher than the fourth quarter’s. The sale of our interest in the Nerefco refinery and associated
assets in the Netherlands resulted in an after tax gain of $700 million. Absent the sale, results were
about $40 million lower between quarters. Realized downstream margins improved earnings by
about $50 million, led by higher refining margins in most regions, in line with the rise in indictor
margins. An unfavorable swing in foreign exchange effects reduced earnings by $90 million and
drove the variance in Other.
Slide 11 shows earnings from Chemicals were $120 million in the first quarter compared with 124
million in the fourth quarter. Results for olefins declined during the quarter, primarily due to lower
ethylene margins and higher manufacturing costs related to planned turnarounds. The
improvement in Additives earnings reflects the combination of higher margins and lower nonmanufacturing expenses.
Slide 12 covers all other. First quarter results show a positive variance from the prior quarter due to
higher earnings associated with the company’s investment in Dynegy included in the P&L
businesses bar, and as mentioned in our interim update guidance, favorable corporate tax items
included in Other. Largely as a result of a variance in tax items, net charges for segment other were
lower than our standard quarterly guidance for this segment that calls for a range of 160 to $200
million excluding Dynegy.
That completes our brief analysis for the quarter. Back over to you, Steve.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Irene. That concludes our prepared remarks. We’ll now take your questions, one question
per caller, please. We’ll wrap up at or before the top of the hour. Matt, please open the lines for
questions, thanks.

Operator: [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Dan Barcelo of Banc of America; your
question, please.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Yes, good morning.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Dan.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: The downstream had an impact obviously in the first quarter from
Richmond. I didn’t know if you could just further quantify for us a bit some of the non-recurring
operational impacts for first quarter for the downstream relative to just the refining margin impacts
or other environment impacts.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Sure, thanks Dan. Just for a little bit of background, as Irene mentioned,
we had a fire that occurred at the Richmond refinery in mid-January at the crude unit just as it was
being brought down for scheduled maintenance. We had a failure of a swing-out wash oil pipe
spool, but as I mentioned, there was a planned turnaround being readied. So our supply position
already anticipated the unit being out of service. The fire itself extended the shutdown by about a
month and the refinery was back by the end of the first quarter. From an analytical perspective, if
you try to get an estimate of the cost of the incident including the lost profit opportunity as well as
the additional repair costs, Dan, it is probably on the order of about $150 million or so.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Thank you.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Next question please.
Operator: Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Citigroup; your question, please.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Good morning, Steve and Irene.
<A – Steve Crowe>: Good morning, Doug.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: The tax in the quarter, Steve, I think Irene alluded to it a little bit there in the
comments, but it was obviously a quite a bit lower than your guidance I guess. Could you walk us
through some of the major items there and just reiterate perhaps what you expect the run rate to be
for the balance of the yea?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Sure, thank you Doug. The first quarter effective tax rate was 37.6% and if
you look at the average effective tax rate for full year 2006 it was more on the order of 46%. So
Doug, as you pointed out, it was considerably lower than last year.
In looking at the components as to why our average effective tax rate is lower in the first quarter for
a 90-day period, I would point to three things. Number one, we had a lower tax rate associated
with the Nerefco sale, certainly a non-recurring item from a run rate perspective. Number two, we
had some favorable adjustments for prior periods resulting from the completion of tax audits.
Number three, in the first quarter, proportionately more income was earned in lower tax rate
jurisdictions. Clearly we operate in many taxing jurisdictions, so as they ship from location to
location, you can get some noise on that score.
With respect to the favorable adjustments for prior periods, as Irene mentioned, we tried to at least
reference this in the April 10 interim update. In that interim update when we spoke about the All
Other segment, we said for the first quarter favorable tax related effects at the corporate level are
expected to substantially offset corporate charges for the period, so given the earlier guidance,
which should have given some indication that we were going to be getting a favorable tax benefit.
But those three components explain roughly the 10% or 9% decline from an average run rate.
As to your question what might be an average rate, I think the rate that we saw in 2006 is pretty
representative. Again, there will be noise that occurs when we have adjustments as a result of
completion of tax audits, and there will be noise to the extent that you have transactions that result
in tax rates different than that average. Thanks very much for your question, Doug. I hope that
helps.
Operator: Our next question is from Ron Oster of AG Edwards; your question, please.
<Q – Ronald Oster>: Good morning, Steve. I had a quick question on Gorgon. I was wondering if
you could give us an update in terms of any progress that may have been made there regarding the
development type or any contract sales. If you could just go over some of the major hurdles that
need to be overcome before it can be sanctioned and any timeframe on sanction, it would be
helpful.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Ron. We covered this at last month’s New York analyst meeting,
but for the benefit of those who may not have heard that, let me give a little bit of background.
Gorgon is a project of great scale and complexity, and certainly we’re dealing with increasing
market-related costs. Gorgon is presently in the engineering and design phase. You may recall
last December, we received concurrence on the environmental framework for a 2-train LNG facility
on Barrow Island, which was given by the Western Australian government. We’re now awaiting the
final environmental permit from the Western Australia government and the commonwealth, which
we expect will occur around midyear.
During the last several months, we’ve undertaken additional studies to reduce costs, consider
appropriate production capacities, and try to mitigate any uncertainty with respect to the execution
before we make a final investment decision. But the project is moving forward, and the first hurdle
that we need to get past is the environmental permit, which I mentioned we hope to see in the not
too distant future. As was indicated in the slides that we showed at the analyst meeting last month,
startup is expected after 2010. It’s difficult for me to give anything more precise at this stage of the
game until some of these milestones are completed, but I thank you for your question, Ron.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Flannery of Credit Suisse; your question, please.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Yes, thanks. My question is on Kazakhstan and Tengiz in particular. Can
you just update us what we expect to see from that project as we go through the year, any
maintenance or ramp-ups, ramp-downs, that kind of thing?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Mark. Again, this was a project that George Kirkland
discussed at last month’s analyst meeting, but let me give just a little bit of a backdrop here on this
phased expansion at TCO. The sweet gas injection came on in the latter pat of 2006. This year,
we tested it and established the sustained injection rates and pressures and the mechanical
operation of the facilities.
Later in 2007, we expect the sour gas injection to commence and staged oil will increase. Once
fully online in 2008 as the project ramps up, we see Tengiz gross production capacity increasing
from levels in the neighborhood of 285,000 barrels a day to a range of 460 to 550,000 barrels a day
once it is fully online. So it’s moving ahead and we’ll continue to update you with respect to the
project as more information becomes available. Thanks very much, Mark.
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers; your question, please.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thanks, Dave and Irene, good morning.
<A – Dave O’Reilly>: Hi, Paul.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Hi, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Just a quick one. I’ve seen that you updated Gorgon. Can you give us an
update on Nigeria and Angola on the LNG projects to see where we are in terms of finishing those
projects? Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Paul. Those projects are earlier in their development. The
Angola LNG project in which we own about a 36% equity is still in feed. That is the front-end
engineering and design phase. It is progressing with the collaboration with our partners and we
expect FID later this year.
As to the Nigeria LNG project, the Olokola one, it too is in feed with engineering and design work
underway. It’s a little bit further back than the Angola one, but we will keep you apprised as it
progresses. That’s the current status, Paul. Thank you much.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman of Benchmark; your question, please.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Guys, good morning.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Mark.

<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: I wanted to see if I could get a little bit more clarification on the international
downstream earnings, knowing that that segment contains a number of what I would consider to be
non-refining and marketing activities, including shipping, including CPC, including the petrochemical interest in Korea with LG. I also noticed in that variance analysis, there was no mention
one way or the other of the potential absence of the fourth quarter LIFO benefit that favorably
impacted those results. So if you could clarify that first quarter result in that segment, drill down a
little bit, I’d appreciate it.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Thanks, Mark. You asked about some of the other contributing factors to our
international downstream earnings; for example, shipping and so forth. Shipping was actually down
between quarters on account of fewer liftings and lower freight rates. The earnings contributed
from the Sasol JV were positive between quarters. Trading margins were higher between quarters.
And clearly the biggest driver as far as other items relates to foreign exchange which was a
negative variance between the two quarters. Inventory related effects, I do not have that
specifically isolated at this time. We can certainly get that to you after the call.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Mark, you are quite right. It’s a very large business with lots of
components in it. In making it simplified for these bar charts, we do take a lot of things that get
netted together. Thank you much; may we have the next call, please.
Operator: Our next question is from Bernie Picchi of Wall Street Access; your question, please.
<Q – Bernard Picchi>: Yes, good morning, Steve and Irene. It was interesting and pleasing to see
you had a 5% increase in branded gasoline sales in the US in the quarter. I was a little surprised
by that given what has happened to gasoline prices. Can you give us any color what may actually
be happening region by region, and also within the quarter and if you can go out into the beginning
of the second quarter? Are you seeing a continuation of that trend? Has there been a falling off or
an acceleration or what’s going on?

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Bernie. The main driver that we’ve seen in our increase in
volumes associated with branded gasoline here in the United States has been the expansion
associated with the Texaco brand. As we got full use of that, we’ve expanded the brand both in the
Southeast and now more recently on the West Coast. So that has been a key contributor for the
increasing sales of branded gasoline that we’ve seen here in the United States. As you can
imagine, that’s a very favorable development from our perspective. As far as I know, Bernie, we
don’t see anything to suggest that that will not continue. Thanks very much. May we have the next
call?
Operator: Your next question is from Oswald Clint of Sanford Bernstein; your question, please.
<Q – Oswald Clint>: Hi, good morning, guys, just one question on exploration, please. Given the
very successful exploration discoveries quarter to-date and actually over the last couple of years, is
there any potential throughout the rest of the year for a step up in drilling activity or some extra
exploration wells to be drilled over the course of 2007?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well there’s – as we had talked about at our January call, we see the
exploration activity essentially on par with that of last year. We’ve just had tremendous success
with exploration, as you know. Over the last 5 years, our success rate has been industry leading at
45%. I don’t have any specific new information with regards to the exploration program, but it is
something that we’re very proud of and have had a tremendous track record on. Perhaps we can
get you some more detail if you’ll follow up with Irene a little later.

<A – Irene Melitas>: I would also actually recommend that you refer to the presentation by Bobby
Ryan back in March, and in one of the slides it actually provides in great detail what our program is
for 2007.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Irene. May we have the next call?
Operator: Our next question is from John Herrlin of Merrill Lynch; your question, please.
<Q – John Herrlin>: Yes, hi. Looking upstream at your CapEx, you’re up 26% versus first quarter
last year, but down 21% versus fourth quarter. I’m just trying to get a sense of how and what you’re
spending on. Are these lumpy changes because of all the development stuff you’re doing with
things like Agbami and Tahiti or is it because of exploration activity?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, John. Certainly our C&E pattern is influenced by the timing of
these large projects that you’ve heard so much about. We monitor the capital program very, very
closely. On a naive basis, if you look back for several years for Chevron, our spending tends to be
back end loaded to the second half of the year. The 4.1 billion spent through the first quarter in the
aggregate; that includes R&M and other as well, is right in line with our historical pattern of
spending about 20 to 21% of the full C&E amount in the first quarter. So I think your point is – your
perception is correct. It’s driven largely by the timing of these projects.
<Q – John Herrlin>: Thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks very much, John.
Operator: Our next question is from Jason Gammel of Prudential; your question, please.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Good morning, Steve and Irene.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Jason.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning, Jason.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: With the Richmond incident now largely behind you, can you provide us
with any guidance about progress on capturing the ‘reliability refinery’ within the system, maybe in
terms of utilization rates that we could expect to see for the remainder of the year based on what
you know about scheduled maintenance?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well as we would have mentioned at last month’s analyst meeting, we’re
spending a lot of time on process and equipment and people in trying to create that ‘reliability
refinery’. Running the refineries with excellence is a very cost effective way of increasing earnings
for our shareholders. As Mike would have mentioned last month, 2007 has a particularly heavy
turnaround. As I mentioned, there was a turnaround at the – planned turnaround in the first quarter
at Richmond and we have other planned turnarounds that occur here in the United States and
overseas.
For competitive reasons and commercial reasons, we don’t describe the timing of those things until
they’re completed but they will influence the metrics when you look at crude utilization. However,
they’re well planned for and the downstream units are up and running and so we will continue to
progress our efforts towards improving reliability. It is a key focus for our downstream business and
we expect to see continued progress just as we had done in 2006. Thanks for the question very
much, Jason.
<A – Irene Melitas>: And Jason, if I may add one more thing, just a data point here. The number
of outages for the last 6 months was about 40% lower than the prior 6 months. So I think that
speaks to our ongoing progress in the reliability arena.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, may we have the next question please?
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers; your question, please?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hey, Steve and Irene, just as a follow-up, when I’m looking at your share
buyback is about $1.25 billion a quarter. If you’re looking at your cash flow generating capability
and your cash on hand, is there any reason that the company does not want to increase the run
rate to a more substantial?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. The cash on hand at the end of the first quarter included
the proceeds from the Nerefco sale which were received as the clock struck midnight on March 31.
Absent that, the cash balances at the end of March relative to the end of the year were nearly the
same. As I pointed out, we spent $1.25 billion for share repurchases in the first quarter. Given the
cash balances that we have now and our cash generation capacity along with the strengthening of
commodity prices, it’s highly likely that we’ll increase the pace of our repurchase program here in
the second quarter. But we look at the repurchase program as an appropriate use of our cash in
excess of operating needs and our capital program. But first and foremost, we have such a
wonderful queue of projects, we want to make sure we fund the growth for our shareholders by
making sure that those projects are well funded.
Over the last three years or so, we have used the share repurchase program as way of a balanced
capital realignment as we’ve reduced debt and reacquired equity. It is, however, even from an
investment point of view, quite apart from capital structure, an attractive investment for excess cash
for our shareholders as we’re purchasing reserves at rates that are under $10 a barrel. So I think
you can expect a step up in the repurchase rate in the second quarter. Thanks very much, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Steve, can I stay in with an additional number, an additional question?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Sure.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: You talked about the branded sales, gasoline sales up because of Texaco.
Can you give us, share with us some market intelligence in your network? What is the same-store
sales year-over-year for those stores that have opened more than 12 months?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. I don’t have the information for the change in volumes for
same-store sales year-to-year. If you give us some time, we may be able to get that information for
you. Thanks much.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman of Benchmark; your question, please?

<Q – Mark Gilman>: Steve and Irene, I wonder if we could talk in a little bit greater detail about the
West African production numbers, which in this particular quarter and frankly in some quarters
previously, seem to be running below that which I would expect given the development inventory
and progress on projects. Could you alert us to any specific entitlement and production-sharing
contract effects regarding Angola and Block 14 in particular; or alternately, if the first quarter is
associated either with a decline from 4Q as associated to you with Chad and Nigeria or elsewhere,
if you could highlight that as well, please?
<A – Irene Melitas>: Yes, Mark, thanks for your question. The variance in West Africa is largely
driven by Nigeria. Last quarter, we had most of the variance in our Africa production, primarily in
liquids, reflected an incremental production that was allocable to us under the terms of one of our
agreements that were completed in the quarter. These types of allocations occur periodically and
are somewhat similar to cost recovery barrels. So what you’re seeing 4Q – 1Q is the absence of
that allocation, if you will. And Angola, actually the story is quite positive for the quarter. We did
show a positive variance and it reflects primarily strong performance of our fields out there and the
addition of one more producing well at BBLT during the first quarter.

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks very much, Mark. I think at this juncture, we’ll wrap it up. In closing, let me say that we
appreciate everybody’s participation on today’s call and I especially want to thank each of the
analysts on behalf of all the participants for their questions during this morning’s session. So Matt,
back to you.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today’s first quarter of 2007 earnings conference
call. You may now disconnect. Good day.