Operator: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Second Quarter 2007 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As
a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to the Chairman and CEO of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Dave
O’Reilly. Please go ahead sir.

David O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Matt, and welcome to Chevron’s second quarter earnings conference call. Today I’m
joined by Steve Crowe, Chief Financial Officer; and Irene Melitas, Manager of Investor Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2007 and
I’ll refer to the slides that are available on the web.
I’ll remind you that today’s presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking
statements and ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, the company reported earnings of $5.4 billion in the second quarter, up 24%
from the second quarter of 2006. Earnings of $2.52 per diluted share were up 28% from a year
ago. The main drivers for the increase were first, a $680 million after-tax gain on the sale of our
interest in Dynegy, partially offset by costs of $160 million from retiring uneconomic debt; second,
the absence of hurricane related charges for uninsured costs incurred in the second quarter of
2006; and thirdly, higher margins for refined products.
Second quarter results were 14% higher than the first quarter, which Steve will discuss shortly.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 4 quarters was 24% and the debt ratio was about 10% at
quarter end. Share repurchases totaled $1.75 billion, reflecting a higher buyback pace, which
Steve foreshadowed at last quarter’s conference call. We now expect to complete the current
buyback program in the third quarter.
Steve will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Steve?

Stephen Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Dave. My remarks compare second quarter results to those of the first quarter 2007. As a
reminder, our earnings release compared second quarter 2007 to the same quarter a year ago.
Turning to slide 4, second quarter net income was $665 million higher than the first quarter’s result,
driven by stronger commodity prices in the upstream and higher realized margins in the
downstream, particularly in refining. An increase in environmental remediation charges and a
charge for the early redemption of Texaco capital bonds contributed negatively to the quarter’s
results. Both items were highlighted in our interim update.
The other bar reflects a negative variance in tax-related items and a net of everything else. Both
periods had like-sized asset sales gains, the Nerefco sale in the first quarter and Dynegy in the
second largely offsetting one another.
Slide 5 summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which improved by about $425 million
between quarters. Higher realizations, particularly for liquids, benefited earnings by 220 million
between quarters. The $7.29 per barrel increase in crude realizations was generally in line with the
increase on a composite of industry benchmark prices and contributed to a favorable $200 million
variance between quarters. Improved natural gas realizations resulted in a $20 million profit effect.
Though Henry Hub bid week prices increased by $0.76 per 1,000 cubic feet, our average
realizations rose $0.16 per 1,000 cubic feet, reflecting our regional production mix and spot sales.
Volumes including one additional producing day increased earnings by $30 million. Other primarily
reflects a favorable variance in FAS 133 effects, lower exploration expenses and a gain on the sale
of a couple of small operations.
Turning to slide 6, international upstream earnings were $305 million higher than the first quarter’s.
Stronger oil prices benefited earnings by about $560 million and were partly offset by lower gas
realizations. Unit liquids realizations improved $10.17 per barrel, in line with the rise in spot Brent
prices. Higher liftings in Canada, Bangladesh, and Azerbaijan and other international locations
resulted in a positive earnings variance of $120 million. The negative $70 million for litigation
represents the absence of a favorable litigation settlement in the first quarter. The variance in
Other includes an unfavorable swing in tax-related items as well as higher operating and
depreciation expense.

Slide 7 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced
from oil sands in Canada. Daily volumes were down by 13,000 barrels per day between quarters,
with the larger changes by country noted on the slide. For the first 6 months of the year, our
worldwide oil equivalent production averaged 2,640,000 barrels per day. We expect production for
the second half of the year to be in line with the first.
Turning to slide 8, US downstream results in the second quarter exceeded the prior quarter’s by
about $430 million. Higher realized margins benefited earnings by $390 million relative to the first
quarter, reflecting stronger industry margins, particularly refining. Refining margins were partially
dampened by inventory related effects and an unfavorable variance in final pricing adjustments for
long-haul crude. Marketing margins also improved the quarter’s results. Refining volumes
increased results by $135 million between quarters, primarily due to the completion of the first
quarter Richmond refinery crude unit turnaround. The unfavorable variance in Other largely reflects
an increase in costs for environmental remediation as highlighted in our interim update.
Turning to slide 9, international downstream results of $517 million were lower than the first
quarter’s. Absent the first quarter’s $700 million gain on the sale of our interest in the Nerefco
refinery, results were $56 million lower between quarters. Realized downstream margins improved
earnings by about $150 million, primarily led by higher refining margins in most regions, in line with
the rise in indicator margins. Lower volumes resulted in a decline of about $45 million between
quarters, reflecting the first quarter Nerefco sale. Included in Other is an unfavorable swing in
foreign exchange effects along with higher operating expenses, reflecting increased maintenance
and labor costs.
Slide 10 shows earnings from chemicals were $104 million in the second quarter compared with
$120 million in the first quarter. Results for olefins improved during the quarter due to higher
ethylene and polyethylene margins and increased ethylene volumes. This was more than offset by
an asset write-down in aromatics.
Slide 11 covers all other. Second quarter results show a positive variance from the prior quarter,
arising from a gain on the sale of our interest in Dynegy, which was partially offset by a charge
related to the early redemption of Texaco capital bonds, both of which were highlighted in our
interim update. The variance in the other bar reflects an increase in environmental remediation
expense for legacy Texaco and Unocal sites that have been closed or sold, tax related, and other
miscellaneous items. Absent the Dynegy gain and charge related to debt redemption, net charges
for this segment fell within the guidance range of 160 to $200 million provided in our interim update.

That completes our brief analysis for the quarter; back over to you, Dave.

David O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Steve. Turning to slide 12, we highlight some of the recent developments of the last few
months, starting with upstream. Last month, we announced a delay in our Gulf of Mexico Tahiti
project due to [inaudible] problems discovered in the facility’s mooring shackles. New shackles
have been ordered and the timing of their installation is currently under review. At this time, we
have no further updates to provide regarding the completion date for these activities but we will
keep you apprised once we have a firm defined recovery plan in place.
We have also signed a memorandum of understanding with the Venezuelan government for the
retention of our 30% interest in Hamaca. The MOU established the basic terms of the conversion
and governance of the new joint venture company. Final conversion steps, including the National
Assembly’s approval and the issuance of a Presidential Transfer Decree, are expected later this
year.

In Europe, we successfully completed a production test of the Rosebank appraisal well, west of
Shetland. Chevron holds a 40% interest in the Rosebank discovery and is the operator. A third
appraisal well is expected to be completed later this year and the resulting data will determine a
future work program for the discovery.
On the downstream side, earlier in the quarter we disclosed that an extensive planned turnaround
of our major crude distillation unit in the El Segundo refinery was underway. That turnaround is
now mechanically complete and the unit startup is underway. During the down time, certain work
was performed to progress the heavy crude project, which remains on track for year end
completion.
We also completed the sale of our fuels marketing assets in Uruguay and announced an
agreement for the sale of the Benelux marketing assets in Europe. That transaction is expected to
close during this third quarter and both transactions are part of our portfolio rationalization efforts
highlighted during our March analyst meeting.
And then finally in May, as we mentioned earlier, we sold our interest in Dynegy. Our decision was
driven by Dynegy’s exit from oil and gas activities and the company’s increasing focus on power
generation, thereby minimizing the strategic fit with Chevron.
That concludes our prepared remarks. We’ll now take your questions, and one caller and one
question per caller at a time, please. We’ll try to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. So Matt,
please open the lines for questions.
Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Dan Barcelo of Banc of
America; your question, please?
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Yes, good morning. Regarding US natural gas production, you mentioned
in the press release that it’s down about 7% year on year due to base declines. However, if I look
over the last three quarters sequentially, it seems the decline is a lot less. I don’t know if you could
give any further guidance on base declines for natural gas and even for oil, which actually has been
pretty flat, especially given the pull back in natural gas prices.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Dan, this is Irene. We don’t really assign a decline value to natural gas
versus liquids. The guidance we’ve previously issued is that overall, our decline rate worldwide is
about 4 to 5%, and in the US it is higher, somewhere in the neighborhood of about 7%. But we
don’t otherwise provide a split between liquids and gas.
<Q – Daniel Barcelo>: Perfect, thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question, please?
Operator: Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Citigroup. Your question, please?

<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thank you, good morning folks. I’d like to ask a related question, I guess.
Production guidance for the balance of this year, perhaps looking ahead, can you just give us –
bring us up to date with where you see things? Just to be clear, Venezuela is now. I guess fully out
of the equation in terms of the present mix there, but do you see any other changes taking place in
Venezuela that might impact your production outward over the balance of this year in particular?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thanks, Doug. As I had mentioned in the aggregate for the enterprise, we
see second half production largely the same as we had in the first; that is 2,640,000 barrels a day
or thereabouts. In the second half of the year, we do anticipate some declines here in the United
States as a result of normal field declines, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. But internationally, we
expect to see some pickup in Eurasia as a result of our TCO expansion that will be coming on later
in the year as well as a full six months of Bibiyana, where it came online at the end of the first
quarter this year.
As far as the specifics on Venezuela are concerned for Hamaca, right at this juncture the terms
have not been made public, so we won’t comment on that particularly. But our projects are largely
on track and as I said, we expect to be about the same for the full year. Thanks very much; may
we have the next question?
Operator: Our next question is from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs; your question please?
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Thanks. My question is on some of the tax claims that have been filed by
Russian related to the CPC [Caspian Pipeline Consortium] that has at least been in the press. I
realize the nature of these things are difficult to forecast outcomes and so forth, but just given the
importance of your Tengiz project and Kazakhstan production, to the extent that you’re not able to
come to some sort of settlement with Russia, do they have any reasonable recourse or actions that
they can take or should we feel that since it is a separate country from Kazakhstan, we shouldn’t
feel that the Tengiz or Kazakh production is at risk for any reason related to these tax claims?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Arjun, there have been some tax claims. By the way, these are not
unusual; we get them all over the world, United States included, but let me just put them in
perspective. The very first tax claim that we appealed, it went to the higher court. The higher court
kicked it back down to the lower court. These are I would say legitimate questions for tax
authorities to ask that we need to resolve; so that was an encouraging sign. I expect that we’re
going to resolve these tax claims just like we do in other jurisdictions and it’s a matter of
interpretation of the tax code and sitting down and understanding one another and getting a
resolution.
Now having said that, with Tengiz of course, we are also looking at other options; we’re not solely
dependent on CPC. We have a significant rail program, export program that we’ve exercised in the
past. As you remember, we operated Tengiz for five or six years without any CPC pipeline but we
have many other options. And we are also developing a southern route to take advantage of our
participation in the Baku-Ceyhan line. So there are multiple options for exports here, but I wouldn’t
get hung up on this tax case because I think it’s just an example of something we have to work our
way through.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: That’s helpful, caller. Thank you very much.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Arjun. May we have the next question?
Operator: Your next question is from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers; your question, please?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hi, good morning.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Good morning, Paul. How are you doing?

<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hi Dave, Steve and Irene. Dave, can you give an update on the status of our
Gorgon, Agbami, and also the Neutral Zone contract extension?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay; Gorgon, Agbami and Neutral Zone, let me start with Gorgon. You’ll
recall that one of the big issues last year was getting government approval from the environmental
perspective from the Western Australia government and the Western Australian government EPA
had filed an objection. We worked our way through that and at the end of last year, we were able
to resolve those issues and objections from the EPA and gain the approval of the Western
Australian government to go ahead with the project. Then there were two other issues remaining,
which we talked about in the spring at our March analyst meeting. The first was getting federal
government approval or the commonwealth government technically, approval for the environmental
permits there. That process is still underway and is not complete but I am confident that we’re
going to get completion there and we’re working hard to get it there.
The other issue was the question of costs and the cost escalation that we’re seeing in the whole
LNG supply chain: fabrication, contractors, construction, et cetera. That led us to go back and work
with our partners late last year and we’re continuing that work, although we should be wrapping it
up this year. It caused us to go back with our partners and look at trying to come up with
alternatives and optimization for the construction plan and facilities; different configurations. That
work is underway. We’re working with our partners. This is an enormously big project. It’s very
important from a capital stewardship perspective to get it right. So we’re looking at a facility that’s
going to be on the ground for decades and producing very, very copious quantities of gas. We
want to get it right; we’re working our way through it. And when we get it right, we’ll move forward
with it. But that work is still underway. That’s Gorgon. You asked two other questions, although
you were supposed to ask one.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: It’s all in one question.
<A – David O’Reilly>: I know, yes. Agbami, next month I’ll be in Korea visiting the FPSO, which is
nearing completion. It’s one of the largest ever built, the size of an aircraft carrier I’ve been told.

So I’m looking forward to seeing it. It’s ready; it’s going to sail later this quarter, early in the fourth
quarter. So everything is online with Agbami.
The third question you asked was the Neutral Zone. We are in the process of renegotiating or
negotiating an extension or amendment to the Neutral Zone agreement, which has been in place
from 1949 and through different successor companies and it’s too early to predict the outcome
other than to say that we are currently engaged and over the next year or so, we hope to get that
issue resolved. But it’s too early to say yet. It’s early days in the negotiation. Thank you. I will
take the next question, please.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul.
Operator: Our next question is from Nicole Decker of Bear Stearns; your question, please?
<Q – Nicole Decker>: Good morning. My question is on the share buyback program given that
you aim to complete your authorization next quarter. I’m interested in hearing your thoughts on the
likelihood of an extension or a renewal.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Nikki. This is Steve. Yes, as Dave mentioned, we anticipate
completing the currently $5 billion authorized program in the third quarter. That would amount to
$1.9 billion and we fully expect that our Board will authorize a follow-on program right behind it. As
indicated, we’ve been ramping up the repurchase program given the current market conditions and
our debt profile. We have $1.75 billion here in the second quarter and as I mentioned, 1.9 billion in
the third quarter. So thanks very much. But that can be your expectation. May we have the next
question?

Operator: Our next question is from Bruce Lanni of AG Edwards; your question, please?
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: Yes. Good morning Dave, Steve, and Irene.
<A – Irene Melitas>: Good morning Bruce.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi, Bruce.
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: Just a follow-up question somewhat dealing with Paul Cheng; Gulf of Mexico,
could you give us – I tuned in a little bit late, you may have covered it. But can you give us an
update on Tubular Bells, the sanctioning there as well as any status or comments on Jack and Bob
North?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay, Bruce. Let me take that. Let me just give you an overview of the
Gulf of Mexico in general. I covered the Tahiti issue earlier in my opening remarks and we have no
firm plan yet for recovery other than we’ve ordered replacement shackles and we’re still working on
a recovery plan there. Blind Faith, the hull has been delivered to the Gulf. By the way, the Tahiti
hull is in the Gulf. So it’s not a question of the hull, it’s a question of getting the shackles
manufactured and coming up with a new program for installation. It’s much too early to predict
what timeframe that could occur. But on Blind Faith, the hull has been delivered into the Gulf of
Mexico and that’s looking on track.
Jack and St. Malo, you recall last year, we completed an extensive record-setting test on Jack and
we have an appraisal program planned for both St. Malo and a continuation of the appraisal of Jack
during 2008, not during 2007, so you will not hear more from us this year other than to say there’s
more appraisal underway and that will lead to a much better understanding in ‘08; and beyond that,
who knows? We’ll be developing some sort of a development plan to move forward, but that is the
timeframe for those two.

On Tubular Bells, we’re still working with the operator on that to develop further appraisal and it’s
too early to predict yet, but the ultimate development is there, but I’d refer you to the operator on
that one. Was there another question?
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: Bob North.
<A – David O’Reilly>: I believe we have a well in our program currently with Bob North and it’s –
we’ll perhaps have more to say about Bob North later this year, okay?
<Q – Bruce Lanni>: Excellent, thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Bruce.
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon of Sanford Bernstein; your question, please?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi, good morning.
<A>: Good morning.

<Q – Neil McMahon>: Just on Jack again, actually, it looked like there was a delay on the next
appraisal well on Jack, and I believe that’s your – at the investor presentation earlier in the year,
you were not planning to test the appraisal well, but given the fact that it has been delayed into
2008, are you now going to test that next appraisal well? And maybe you could provide an ongoing
description of how you’re finding the reservoir characteristics based on the work you’ve done so far.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Neil, let me go back and be very precise because we were very careful
about what we said. We said we do our next appraisal well at Jack either late this year or early
next year. What I’m saying now is it’s going to be early next year, not late this year. It is unlikely
that we’ll need to test that well, but it will help us characterize the scope of the reservoir, and
beyond that, I’m not prepared to make any other predictions.
St. Malo, I don’t think we’ve made a decision yet as to whether we’re going to test the St. Malo well.
A lot will depend on what we find in the next appraisal well, so it’s too early to tell what we’ll do
there. One of the great advantages here is now we have merged our predevelopment teams
because they have both been working – this is the benefit of the merger between Chevron and
Unocal because Unocal was the operator at St. Malo, we’re the operator at Jack. Now we have
been able to merge the technical teams that are working on this and I think we’re trying to optimize
our plans here so that we transfer learnings from one to the other and take the most efficient
approach to developing this new trend in an economic way. So early days yet, more work to come,
but we’re very satisfied with the progress we’ve made to date.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you. May we have the next question please?
Operator: Your next question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark; your question, please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Hello, guys, good morning. I was wondering if you could provide just a little
bit more clarity and granularity on the heavy crude projects in El Segundo and Yosu in Korea in
terms of what units in particular you’re putting in, the size, the cost and what the yield implications
will be.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, thanks Mark. Let me just give you a general review on El Segundo
first, and we tried to cover some of this in the March meeting. The El Segundo work really requires
a lot of work in two areas. It requires facilities to be installed in our major crude unit, which is
currently underway and actually just about wrapped up, as I mentioned in my formal remarks. The
second phase of the construction work revolves around the coker because we need more coking
capacity and more efficient coking capacity and that work will be conduct – the construction work is
already underway but it will be conducted and completed during the coker turnaround that we have
scheduled in the fourth quarter this year. So the plan is to have it all wrapped up. In the case of
Yosu, it is actually – so the El Segundo is in the hundreds of millions range.
Now the Yosu project is $1.5 billion and it involves some new facilities, dehydrogenation facilities,
as well as at the back end of a new lube base oil plant. The ability of the plant and the capacity of
the plant to treat – convert heavier crudes, that will complete by the end of the year and that’s on
track. The lube oil plant is expected to start up in the second quarter of next year. It lags behind
the basic plant itself. So that’s generally the scope of the two projects. The one at Yosu is quite
much more significant and we’ll be covering that in more detail in one of our upcoming calls or
perhaps in our big analyst meeting early next year. Thank you.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Thanks, Dave.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question please?
Operator: Our next question is from Robert Kessler of Simmons; your question, please?

<Q – Robert Kessler>: Good morning. Dave, I don’t really expect you to speak on behalf of other
oil companies but any thoughts as to why you’re sticking around in Venezuela despite Exxon and
Conoco having taken Chavez to court effectively?
<A – Dave O’Reilly>: First of all, we’ve been there a long time, since the 1940s originally, but let
me mention a couple of things. We were able to successfully convert our Boscan operation to a
joint venture company last year, and in the process of doing that, preserve value and come out of it
in what we think was a satisfactory conclusion. We believe that we have the same opportunity here
at Hamaca. I can’t speak for other companies other than to say that we wouldn’t be making this
choice if we didn’t think it was the right choice for Chevron, and we are confident that under the
circumstances that we can complete – the negotiations are complete, but get them appropriately
approved by the authorities so we can continue to operate there. But I think in your question, you
almost implied part of the answer. You should put that question to some of the others as well.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Any thoughts on a future heavy oil project in addition to Hamaca at this
point?
<A – Dave O’Reilly>: No, I think our focus right now is on restructuring our current operations
there and we’ll just have to see how we’re treated there, what the opportunities are in the future,
and our decisions to go further there are entirely dependent on our experience with the operations
that we’ve already converted and are in the process of converting. Thank you.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question please?
Operator: Your next question is from Mark Gilman of Benchmark; your question, please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Hey Steve, I’m having an awful lot of difficulty with the transparency in the
release regarding what are indicated to be no special items, but as we go through the discussion,
there seemed to be quite a number. I was hoping you could quantify the asset sales in US E&P,
the environmental provisions in refining and marketing, and to what extent those provisions are
included in the $150 million number that is indicated in the waterfall chart regarding overall
earnings, also the asset write-down in foreign E&P.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thank you, Mark. We don’t disclose special items because we no longer
view it as special items given the size of our firm. But the things that we disclosed in the press
release and foreshadowed in the interim update or I think some of the key things if you were
making some adjustments, you could take into account. Certainly the largest among those would
be the gain connected with our sale of the Dynegy shares. Similarly in the same segment, we
indicated that there was a charge in connection of the redemption of some uneconomic Texaco
capital bonds, which we reacquired here in the second quarter. Those two might be things you
could pull from our reported results.
<A – Dave O’Reilly>: Mark, I would like to build a little bit on it because I think Steve is right on the
mark. We are not going to dig into the ups and downs because every quarter there are ups and
downs. Let me give you one example. We see environmental charges come pretty much every
year. Now they come in lumps; some quarters there are fewer and some quarters there are more.
This quarter they are somewhat more than we had experienced; for example, in the first quarter.
But it varies and I think we have to expect that these things are ongoing, so we treat them as a part
of our ongoing business.
I think from an analyst’s perspective, I think the best way to view our earnings is to look at them and
then if we see things that we truly believe are unique and that do not belong in routine business,
such as the two items that Steve cited, I think those we will continue to highlight. But others I think
you’ve got to take into the ongoing business environment and they are lumpy, slightly up
sometimes, slightly down other times. If there is something that we believe is a significant factor
that we think you ought to take into account, we are going to tell you about it. And that is why we
highlighted these two items that we did in the second quarter.

<Q – Mark Gilman>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Mark. May we have the next question please?
Operator: [Operator Instructions]

David O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I think we are about ready to wrap up, so I would like to thank you all for participating in the call.
Please let Irene or our team know if you have any follow-up questions. I’ll be looking forward to
talking to you in future quarters or future meetings. Thank you for your interest in the company and
Matt, thank you for your help today. Goodbye.
Operator: Ladies and gentleman this concludes today’s Second Quarter 2007 Earnings
Conference Call. You may now disconnect. Good day.