Operator: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome
to Chevron’s First Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a
listen-only mode. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and
instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference call is
being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Matt. Welcome to Chevron’s first quarter earnings conference call and webcast. Jim
Aleveras, General Manager of Investor Relations, is on the call with me today.

Our focus is on Chevron’s financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2008. We’ll refer to
the Slides that are available on the web. Before we get started, please be reminded that this
presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that
you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
I’ll begin with Slide 3, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s first
quarter earnings were $5.2 billion, or $2.48 per diluted share. Our first quarter 2008 earnings were
up nearly 10% from the first quarter 2007, reflecting higher crude oil and natural gas prices, which
more than offset weaker downstream results. The first quarter of last year included a $700-million
gain on the sale of our interest in a refinery in the Netherlands. First quarter 2008 earnings rose 6%
compared to the fourth quarter 2007, which Jim will discuss shortly.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 23%. The debt ratio was about 8% at the
end of the quarter. As we announced Wednesday, we increased our quarterly dividend by $0.07
per share, or 12.1%. This marks the fourth consecutive year we’ve raised the second quarter
dividend by a double-digit amount. Stock buybacks were $2 billion in the quarter.
Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?

Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare results of the first quarter 2008 with the fourth quarter 2007.
As a reminder, our earnings release compared the first quarter 2008 with the same quarter a year
ago.
Turning to Slide 4, first quarter net income was almost $300 million higher than the fourth quarter.
Starting with the left side of the chart, higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited the
company’s worldwide upstream results. Partly offsetting this was the impact of lower upstream
volumes. The largest component here was international liftings. Liftings were lower than production
in the first quarter. Downstream results were up slightly from the fourth quarter, reflecting improved
refinery operations in the United States. The variance in the residual Other bar is the net of
everything else.
Slide 5 summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream operations, which improved by about $220
million between quarters. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $335
million. Chevron’s average U.S. crude oil realization was up about $8 per barrel between
consecutive quarters. This is more than the $7.25 per barrel increase in WTI’s spot prices since
much of our Gulf of Mexico crude oil production is priced on a lagged basis.
Production volumes were down 2% between quarters largely due to operational and weather
related downtime as well as normal field declines. This impact reduced earnings by $85 million. The
$85 million DD&A impact reflects higher rates and higher accretion charges for abandonment.
Exploration expense fell $90 million between periods. The primary factor was lower well write-offs
in the first quarter. The Other bar reflects miscellaneous gas marketing and income tax items.
Let’s turn to Slide 6. International upstream earnings for the first quarter were about $70 million
higher than the fourth quarter’s results. Higher oil and gas prices increased earnings by $370
million. Our unit realizations for liquids rose by $5.70 per barrel, significantly less than the $9.30 per
barrel increase in Brent spot prices.
Comparing average prices for the first and fourth quarters, we found that worldwide benchmark
crudes did not move consistently. For example, Malaysia’s light sweet Tapis crude was up $3.20
per barrel between quarters, and Sumatra light rose $7.70 per barrel. WTI spot prices increased
$7.25 per barrel, $2.00 less than the change in Brent. Our realizations therefore, reflected
geographic market prices, which were not in line with Brent movement during this particular
comparison period.

Lower first quarter liftings particularly in Azerbaijan, the UK, Nigeria, and Australia reduced
earnings by $195 million. As I noted earlier we were under-lifted in the first quarter, an issue we
referenced in the interim update. Partially offsetting this under-lift is a onetime benefit from the
retroactive effect of the unitization agreement in Indonesia we also mentioned in the interim update.
Tax items reduced earnings by $230 million between quarters. These were spread among several
countries and included the absence of favorable fourth quarter items we discussed on our last
conference call.
Operating expense was down $130 million from the fourth quarter due to lower seasonal activity
levels in several international areas. The Other bar reflects the net of many unrelated items. The
largest components were adverse foreign exchange effects offset by lower exploration expense.
Slide 7 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production including volumes produced
from oil sands in Canada. Production fell by 14,000 barrels per day, or about 0.5% between
consecutive quarters. United States production fell 15,000 barrels per day, about 2%, due to
operational downtime and normal field declines. Outside the United States, overall production was
flat between quarters. Kazakhstan benefited from the ramp-up of staged oil from the TCO
expansion project. Offsetting this were reduced entitlements in Azerbaijan.
Comparing the fourth and first quarters, the increase in international liquids realizations reduced our
volumes by about 25,000 barrels per day due to cost recovery and variable royalty provisions of
certain production contracts. As we noted at our March Analyst Meeting in New York City, each
contract is different and there are nonlinear points when certain thresholds are reached.
Looking at our 2008 production guidance, our general rule of thumb is unchanged. A $1-per-barrel
increase in crude oil prices will reduce our production entitlement by roughly 2,000 barrels per day.
We caution that this is only an estimate, and results will vary especially for individual quarterly
comparisons.
In the context of our production, I’d like to briefly summarize our upstream project status. As we
discussed at our March meeting, the Tengiz expansion is on track, with the first phase of staged oil
meeting all of its targets and full facility start-up on schedule for the third quarter of this year.

First oil at Blind Faith, our Gulf of Mexico project forecasted for the late second quarter, is now
projected to occur in the second half of 2008 due to an issue with the mooring lines. The exact
timing of startup is dependent on weather in the Gulf. As we mentioned at the March meeting, a
fourth well was added to the initial development plan for Blind Faith. The acceleration of the fourth
well reflects higher-than-anticipated reservoir quality. This well has now been drilled, completed,
and is ready for production at the time of facility startup later this year. As indicated in March, gross
peak production for Blind Faith is now expected to be 70,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Also in March, we said we expected first oil from Moho Bilondo offshore the Republic of Congo in
the second half of this year. This project has now started up ahead of schedule. In Nigeria we
expect our Agbami project to remain on track for a third quarter start-up.
Overall our upstream projects are moving forward. While we will provide an update later in the year,
we are optimistic that, when adjusted for price effects, our 2008 production will be on track with the
guidance we provided in March that was based on $70 oil prices.
Let’s turn to Slide 8. Our U.S. downstream operations moved from a loss position in the fourth
quarter to breakeven results in the first quarter. Industry refining and marketing indicator margins
on the West Coast weakened in the first quarter. Although refining margins improved somewhat on
the Gulf Coast, marketing margins declined. On balance, especially given Chevron’s West Coast
weighting, industry margins were an adverse $55 million impact between quarters.

With the completion of our El Segundo Refinery upgrade project at the end of 2007, the coker was
back in operation, and we were able to run heavier crudes. That helped to improve first quarter
results by roughly $100 million. The swing and timing effects, such as the impact of provisionally
priced foreign crudes, was $50 million better in the first quarter since crude prices did not rise as
much from the beginning to the end of the first quarter as they did in the fourth quarter.
Sales of motor gasoline and jet fuel were down by 2% and 3% respectively. While diesel fuel sales
strengthened between quarters, lower first quarter volumes resulted in an adverse impact of $50
million.
Turning to Slide 9, international downstream earnings fell about $10 million in the fourth quarter’s
results. Refining indicator margins were lower, while marketing margins were mixed across our
international geographic areas. On balance, margins reduced earnings by about $30 million
between quarters.
Volumetric effects were a $70 million adverse variance. This reflected plant shutdowns at refineries
in Canada, South Africa, Singapore, and South Korea. Additionally, marketing volumes were
affected by seasonal factors in Asia and Africa.
Higher charter rates resulted in a $70-million increase in international shipping earnings. A $19
million benefit in the Other bar is the net of many items, including adverse tax effects and favorable
OpEx variance.
Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $43 million in the first quarter
compared with $69 million in the fourth quarter. Results for olefins improved on higher margins and
volumes, especially for polyethylene. Aromatics were essentially unchanged as volumes and
margins were mixed. Included in the Other bar here is an approximately $40-million environmental
provision we mentioned in the interim update, as well as the absence of favorable tax items we
discussed on last quarter’s conference call.
Slide 11 covers all other. First quarter results were net charges of $255 million compared to net
charges of $237 million in the fourth quarter. Corporate tax adjustments had a $100-million adverse
impact between quarters. Corporate charges shown were a favorable variance of $85 million. This
largely reflects lower advertising and employee-related expense.
As we mentioned in the interim update, our current guidance for all other activities is a charge of
250 million to $300 million. Because of irregularly occurring accruals and other charges that affect
corporate and other activities, we continue to expect volatility in this area and the possibility that
actual results will lie outside the guidance range.
That completes our brief analysis for the quarter. Back over to you, Steve.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Jim. And now a brief recap of our strategic progress in recent months. Please turn to Slide
12. Jim touched on the Moho Bilondo deepwater projects in the Republic of the Congo. We
confirmed startup ahead of schedule of this 31%-owned partner-operated project. It is expect to
reach maximum total crude oil production of 90,000 barrels per day in 2010.
With our partners, we made the final investment decision to construct Platong Gas II natural gas
project in Thailand. The $3.1-billion project will add 420 million cubic feet a day of processing
capacity. Chevron is the operator and holds a 70% interest. Startup is anticipated in 2011.

We began frontend engineering and design work to develop an LNG project at our 100%-owned
Wheatstone discovery in Australia. We estimate that Wheatstone holds 4.5 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas resource.
In Nigeria, along with our partners, we made the final investment decision to develop the deepwater
Usan field. Chevron Nigeria Limited holds a 30% interest in this partner-operated project. Usan is
expected to have first production in late 2011, with a peak production of 180,000 barrels of oil per
day.
Finally, as I mentioned, earlier in the week our board approved a 12% increase in the quarterly
dividend. We’ve raised our quarterly dividend by a double-digit amount in each of the last four
years, and our shareholders have benefited from 21 consecutive years of higher annual dividend
payouts.
That concludes our prepared remarks. We’ll now take your questions. One question and one followup per caller, please. Matt, please open the lines for questions. Thanks.

Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions]. Our first question comes from Paul Sankey of
Deutsche Bank. Your question, please.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yes, hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. A couple of things – firstly a
high level question, if I could, and then secondly a more detailed one. In terms of the cash
management, Steve, if you could just talk about firstly your expectations for CapEx this year given
what we’ve seen so far in Q1. I guess you’re still on target for your original guidance. And secondly
the sensitivity to buyback, should we just keep with the ratable 2 billion? Thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. At this point, we confirm that our capital expenditures for
2008 are still at the budgeted amount, which is just shy of $23 billion. As far as our cash
management, I think under the current conditions you can expect a buyback pace comparable to
what you’ve seen in the first quarter. We’ve had a $2-million-per-quarter buyback pace in the third
and fourth quarters of last year and now again in the first quarter of 2008. So I think that’s a
reasonable expectation at this point in time. We certainly have worked into our cash management
the higher dividend that was announced a couple of days ago. Thanks, Paul.

<Q – Paul Sankey>: Great, and if I could, on the detail question – It’s notable. It didn’t come up on
the slide, but in Indonesia you’re down quite hard in oil and up in gas. Is there something going on
on the oil side that we should know about? And if you could make any other observations about the
dynamics of Indonesian growth, that would be great. And a cheeky follow-up is Bangladesh. Is that
peaking now in terms of its volumes, or is there more growth to come? Thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: With respect to Indonesia, one of the things that we had noted in the
interim update is in the first quarter gas as it affects OEG production was benefited by a unitization
and the retroactive benefit of that unitization. As far as liquids production in Indonesia, I’m not
aware of anything that’s systemic, Paul, that would result in the change in terms of our longer-term
profile.
As regards Bangladesh, that operation has been running very well, and there’s been increased
demand on the Bangladesh operation so I don’t see any change in the intermediate term here.
Thanks very much for your questions. May we have the next question please?
Operator: Your next question is from Paul Cheng of Lehman Brothers. Your question, please.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hi, guys.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Steve, when in the past that you’re talking about the underlying decline curve, I
think in your assumption that you’re using 4.5% for the whole corporation. In the first quarter is the
number showing any substantial difference from that?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Paul, I don’t have a number for the first quarter for that shorter period as to
what the decline rate is for our base operations. But as George Kirkland mentioned at the Analyst
Meeting in March, we did have a lot of success in 2007 with a decline rate much below the
guidance that we’re still confirming in that 4.5 to 5% range. As George mentioned, 1 point doesn’t
make a trend. And while we were very pleased and optimistic as to the success in 2007, at this
stage we still advise the analyst community to use the guidance of 4.5 to 5%. Paul, did you have a
follow-up question?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: The somewhat unrelated – I think Jim talked about under-lifting in the quarter.
How much is the under-lifting in the quarter actually cost you in terms of earning? And at the end of
the first quarter are we from an inventory standpoint already balanced or we still is a under-lift?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Well, Paul, we were under-lifted by about 5% in the first quarter. So that’s
about 50,000 barrels, a little over 50,000 barrels a day.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Jim, do you have how much it cost you?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: The impact of a 50,000-barrel-a-day reduction is shown in our international
upstream volumes because it is lifting, not production that have...
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Oh, okay. So it’s 195 million.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: If you look at our international upstream income, that 195 or roughly $200million impact is largely because liftings in the first quarter were lower than in the fourth quarter. In
the fourth quarter, we were about balanced. We were about 1% under-lifted.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay, so at the end of the first quarter we are under-lift. So in theory that we
should see a over-lifting in the second quarter?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Not necessarily in the second quarter, but over time.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay.

<A – Jim Aleveras>: But these things are related to the timing of cargos, but we...
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Sure.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: ...don’t always see them come back each quarter. But over time that is a
good item. I would like to emphasize that the volume, the 195 million on Slide 6 for international
upstream income reflects not just the liquids under-lift, but also affects the favorable impact of the
gas unitization agreement that we mentioned, net of those two.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Paul, the only other thing that I would mention to you when you look at the
quantification of the OEG barrel under-lift is that not all barrels carry with them the same degree of
profitability. So there can be circumstances where you have comparable under-lifts in two periods,
but the P&L effect will be very different because it depends on where those under-lifts occur.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Certainly.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks very much for your question.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. May we have the next question?
Operator: Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Citigroup. Your question, please.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thank you. Thanks for taking my question, Steve.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi, Doug.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: First question is a follow-up to Paul. The 50,000 barrels per day that Jim
mentioned as the under-lift from the international upstream, can you quantify the gas unitization
benefit. What were the volumetric effects of that? That’s my first one.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: As I recall, the effect of the unitization was about 25,000 barrels a day in
terms of OEG production. Again that’ll get ratably smaller as you take it out through all four quarters
of this year.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Okay, great, thanks. Second one is also a downstream question. Jim
mentioned the $100-million impact on earnings as a result of the coker being back up, and now
you’re running heavy oil. Can you give us some idea – that’s an earnings impact. Give us some
idea of what the margin benefit was. Or perhaps to approach another way, what kind of volumes
and what kind of grade of crude that you’re now running there, and how has that changed relative
to let’s say before the project is completed?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Doug, the volumes of crude we’re running are not substantially different.
What is different is that we’re no longer running lighter, sweeter crudes. We are running less
expensive, heavier crudes. I don’t have the exact out split-out of what our crude [inaudible] was,
and we wouldn’t disclose that for the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter. But you can see the
financial impact in the bar there.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: And, Doug, I’d point out that the magnitude of that impact again is
influenced by the fact – while the coker was down in the fourth quarter, we were by necessity
buying lighter, sweeter, and more expensive crudes and feedstocks.

<Q – Doug Leggate>: So not all of the 100 million was margin benefits; some was lower cost?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: It’s primarily lower cost.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Sorry, I mean, operating cost as opposed to cost of crude...
<A – Jim Aleveras>: No, it...
<Q – Doug Leggate>: ...because you were not buying the other products in the fourth quarter.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Well, it’s primarily the cost of feedstock, which is more expensive crude.
There were some intermediates purchased, but it was primarily in the fourth quarter we purchased
lighter, sweeter crudes.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Okay, that’s great. Thanks very much.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Doug. Did you have another follow-up? Okay, may we have the
next question please?
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Flannery of Credit Suisse. Your question, please.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Hi, yes, I’ve got two questions. The first one is can you give us an idea of
what’s going on same-store sales-wise just on the West Coast in terms of volumes? I know you
mentioned a couple of numbers there during the call, about 2% drop in gasoline and distillate doing
well. But could you just run through them again and include a number for diesel? And then I have a
follow-up.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, Mark, I don’t have Chevron’s same-store sales comparing first
quarter ‘08, say, to first quarter of ‘07 in front of me. But I can tell you that if you look at motor
gasoline demand industry-wide in the United States using DOE-implied demand data, through April
demand is down about 0.7%. But the interesting component from a portfolio perspective is in PADD
5 we’re down nearly 7%, whereas in PADDs 1 through 4, we’re up about 0.5% during that fourthmonth period. So we’re seeing a greater demand impact here out on the West Coast where
Chevron’s portfolio is proportionally larger than some of our competitors’. Now on the distillate side
and covering all the distillates, U.S. demand for the first four months is down a little less than 3%
compared to the comparable period a year ago.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: And just specifically on your own operations, are you exposing distillate
right now either from the West Coast or the Gulf?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Not that I’m aware of at this juncture.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Okay, maybe I could just jam this one in as the follow-up.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: And in fact, we’ll try to get back to you with the specifics on that if we have
any different information.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Okay, I’ll call Jim later. But I guess the follow-up, which is not really a
follow-up, is do you have any update on Gorgon maybe you could give us right now?

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Nothing different than what George and Dave would have described to you
at the March Analyst Meeting. We’re pressing ahead with revised compliance with the
environmental permit to reflect three rather than two trains on Barrow Island. But we’re committed
to the project. We’re looking for ways to make it economic and take out costs. But the three
partners are aligned with respect to the strategy. So it’s essentially a confirmation of the information
that was provided back in mid-March.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Thanks very much.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next question, please?
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman of Benchmark. Your question, please.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Steve and Jim, good morning. Guys, I’m having trouble understanding the
overseas downstream earnings. It almost looks to me – and perhaps you guys can clarify it – as if
there was some kind of step-down that occurred about midyear in ‘07 impacted both the fourth
quarter and first quarter. If you were to try to reconcile first quarter against year-ago first quarter,
just looking at the margin comparisons you wouldn’t get anywhere near close. And I guess I’m
further puzzled by the comment Jim made regarding the shipping component of such earnings,
which up significantly in the first quarter versus the fourth, where it would appear to me tanker rates
were down sharply Q4 versus 1. Any help? And I’ve got a follow-up.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Well, let’s take the first part of your question with regard to margins. The
margins that we are quoting are very specific to Chevron’s marketing areas internationally. So,
Mark, as you’re familiar with, we are marketing in certain areas, and we use the indicator margins
to try to match where we are located. And margins have been a little weaker, but have been mixed
overall. You’ll recall that last year in this quarter we had the benefit of the sale of our interest in a
refinery in the Netherlands...
<Q – Mark Gilman>: I took that out, Jim. That’s not a factor.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: And later in the year we had the benefit of the sale of our refining and
marketing assets in the Benelux countries. But if you remove those, yes, margins have been a little
bit weaker, and volumes have been a little weaker in the second half of the year than they were in
the first half.

But as to your comment about shipping, we’re just looking at the freight rates that are charged for
the particular routes and the particular vessels that we use. And, of course, shipping charges are
an expense to the rest of the downstream. We broke it out here partly because we wanted to show
from a transparency standpoint what the components were.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, let me try my follow-up if I could please. The comment in the U.S.
upstream regarding DD&A – I did some rough math, probably not very good at this point in the
week. But nonetheless I’m coming up with about a 2 to 250, an equivalent barrel increase in the
DD&A rate in order to justify that variance. Given the absence of any negative year end ‘07 U.S.
reserve data, I don’t quite understand what it is with virtually no change in producing projects, if you
will, could generate a DD&A increase of that magnitude, and I’m interested in whether it’s
sustainable going forward.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Mark, that’s a good question. One of the things that we did in the latter part
of 2007 was a full review of the abandonment provision for all of our operations, the so-called ARO
liability. And we accrued at year end 2007 an additional abandonment provision that, through the
workings of the ARO, get accreted as part of the DD&A charge as production occurs through those
fields that are so affected. So there would be some discontinuity as you look at fourth quarter on
into the first quarter of this year as a result of that. And I suspect, Mark ,that’s the missing piece that
you can’t find.

<Q – Mark Gilman>: Is that sustainable, Steve?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Well, it’s sustainable to the extent that we’ve increased the abandonment
provision for those fields, and that higher charge will be taken through DD&A over the life of the
fields. And that abandonment provision will be higher than in 2008 than it would’ve been in earlier
periods.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, thanks very much.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: You’re welcome, Mark. May we have the next question, please?
Operator: Our next question is from Erik Mielke of Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Hi, good morning, gentlemen.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Good morning, Erik.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: I have a couple of questions on the upstream production. Firstly, on Asian gas,
which was stronger for Bangladesh, Indonesia, and Thailand, the more we’d model. I know you’ve
already touched on this, but just wanted to make sure we understand what we should expect for the
remainder of 2008 – whether the first quarter production level is a good guide for those three
specific countries on natural gas.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: I don’t have any information to suggest they aren’t, other than the item that
I alluded to with respect to the unitization of our gas field in Indonesia. That obviously because of
the retroactivity would have a greater effect in the first quarter than the other three quarters of the
year. Jim, do you have anything else to add to that?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: No, I don’t.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay, Erik. Erik do you have a follow-up?

<Q – Erik Mielke>: I do. I have two follow-ups, if I may, but let me try one first. Firstly in
Kazakhstan you mentioned that Tengiz would be – the next step change within Tengiz is in the third
quarter. Should we expect a further increase in the second quarter? Is there an element of ramp-up
taking place there? And is there any maintenance at Karachaganak that we need to be aware of?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Well, let’s take Kazakhstan. We’re seeing about a 90,000-barrel-a-day
improvement in production as a result of the first phase, the sour gas injection. That was ramping
up in the first quarter and is now fully ramped up. So you see 34, which is half of a 70-MBD
increase, reflecting our 50% share. That increase ought to be a little higher in the second quarter.
But you won’t see a substantial change until we get into the third quarter and we have full
production facilities. Now, Erik, you asked about another location.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Karachaganak.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Oh, Karachaganak.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Whether there’s maintenance in Karachaganak.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Don’t have anything on that of substance that I’m looking at here. If there
was, it was not something that was terribly dramatic.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Erik did you have one more question?

<Q – Erik Mielke>: If I can try a cheeky one just on Nigeria with the outages that other operators
have there. Have you had any impact on your second quarter volumes that we need to be aware
of?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: No, in talking to our operational folks in Nigeria, the impacts that some of
the others have faced in the first quarter and here into the early second quarter, we haven’t
experienced to the same degree. We’ve had very, very nominal shut-ins for very short durations in
our operations.
I’d also point out, Erik, too, as Jim and I have mentioned, we’ve got Agbami coming on here in the
third quarter. And Agbami, unlike some of the other operations that are onshore, is a deepwater
project and it’s 70 miles offshore. So it’s quite a ways away from where some of the unrest has
occurred. So we expect that the Agbami project will come on as advertised in the third quarter.
Thanks very much Erik, for your questions.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: That’s great. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon of Sanford Bernstein. Your question, please.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi, just a quick question on the exploration wells that are sort of the high
profile ones that are getting drilled. Any update on Jack and the St. Malo appraisal wells? And also
could you give us some sort of a guidance as to when the drilling of the Orphan Basin well is going
to take place?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: With respect to the Orphan Basin, I recall that the next well would be
drilled in 2009. And as far as the follow-up wells for Jack and St. Malo, one is underway now as I
recall and another a little bit later in the year. And then decisions will be made following those
evaluations as to whether or not Jack and St. Malo will be kept as separate projects or conceivably
combined.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay, maybe as a loose follow-up in the upstream – just in terms of the
whole Caspian Basin and the CPC pipeline, how much are you guys involved in looking at a
Bosporus bypass pipeline in Turkey as a way of making sure that the increased Tengiz volumes,
especially as we go forward over time, can find a decent route to market?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Neil, all I can say is that we’re looking at all of our options because obviously
optionality is very important to us in terms of expansion of our existing pipeline. But right now we
have rail capacity to handle all of the exports in addition to the pipeline capacity that would result
from an expansion of the Tengiz project. But in terms of what specifics we’re looking at over and
above rail, we’d rather not discuss that.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: I would say that the discussions with the partners to expand the capacity of
CPC as it has been is ongoing, and there are various conditions that each party has tabled that
we’re looking at. But we’ll still continue with the negotiations for the expansion of CPC. As Jim said,
we otherwise have mechanisms to move Tengiz crude. And just as we had done before the CPC
pipeline was completed, we are using rail and other means to move the crude. Thanks very much
for your question.
Operator: Your next question is from [inaudible] of BlackRock. Your question, please.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hello, [inaudible]?
Operator: [inaudible], did you have a question? You may want to check your mute button.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay, let’s try the next question, please.
Operator: Our next is a follow-up from Mark Gilman of Benchmark. Your question?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Hey, Steve and Jim, are there any rate of return or cumulative production
thresholds on Block 14 in Angola that would be encountered this year at current price levels?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Not that I’m aware of. Hang on one sec here. I’ll see if I can see anything.
In terms of price levels looking at objective, no, there’s nothing substantive that’s associated with
the African operations.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, if I could just sneak in a follow-up – Steve, I wasn’t clear of what you
meant by that roughly 25,000-a-day characterization of the impact of the Indonesian unitization on
the gas side. I thought that there was a one-time retroactive element of it, which is benefiting the
first quarter, and then a considerably smaller positive impact going forward. What was the 25
equivalents a day supposed to represent?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: That was the retroactivity piece that I was alluding to. That would be nonrecurring obviously in other quarters. So your understanding is correct, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, fine, thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Matt, do we have other callers?
Operator: At this time I’m showing no further questions.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Well, thank you. I’m presuming that we’ve been able to cover your questions in the time allotted, I
think in large measure because our interim update provided a lot of information that’s proved to be
consistent with the earnings release that you saw today. So in closing, I want to express my
appreciation to everyone’s participation on the call. And I especially want to thank each of the
analysts on behalf of the participants for their questions during this morning session. So, Matt, I’ll
turn it back to you.

Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today’s 2008 earnings conference call. You may
now disconnect. Good day.
