Operator: Good morning, my name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome
to Chevron’s Third Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Matt. Welcome to Chevron’s third quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the
call with me today are George Kirkland, Executive Vice President, Global Upstream and Gas; and
Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and
operating results for the third quarter of 2008. We’ll refer to the slides that are available on the
web.
Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections,
and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

I’ll begin with slide 3, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s
third quarter earnings were a record $7.9 billion, or $3.85 per diluted share. Our third quarter 2008
results were more than double our third quarter 2007 earnings. Higher crude oil and natural gas
prices contributed to our upstream performance. Our downstream operations benefited from
improved margins, strong refinery utilization and from timing effects related to the substantial drop
in the price of oil during the third quarter.
Third quarter 2008 earnings rose over 30% compared with the second quarter 2008 which Jim will
discuss shortly. To recap the balance of slide 3: Return on capital employed for the trailing 12
months was 27%. Capital and exploratory spending was $5.5 billion for the quarter. Stock
buybacks were $2 billion during the period. Underscoring Chevron’s financial strength, the debt
ratio was below 8% at the end of the quarter, and cash balances exceeded debt by $4 billion.
Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?

Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare the results of the third quarter 2008 with the second quarter
2008. As a reminder, our earnings release compared third quarter 2008 with the same quarter a
year ago.
Turning to slide 4. Third quarter net income was 1.9 billion higher than the second quarter. Starting
with the left side of the chart, lower crude oil and natural gas realizations and lower volumes
reduced worldwide upstream results by more than $1 billion. At the same time, the significant
decrease in crude oil prices during the quarter benefited the downstream segment, which improved
nearly 2.6 billion from the second quarter’s loss positions. The variance in the residual Other bar
largely reflects the absence of charges at the corporate level that were taken in the prior quarter.
Slide 5 summarizes the results of our US upstream operations, which were essentially unchanged
between quarters. Lower crude oil and natural gas realizations reduced earnings by $130 million.
Chevron’s average US crude oil realization was down $1.75 per barrel between consecutive
quarters. This was less than the roughly $5.50 per barrel decline in WTI spot prices between
quarters, since much of our Gulf of Mexico crude oil production is priced on a lagged basis.

Production volumes were down 8% between quarters, primarily due to hurricane-related shut-ins
during September. These reduced earnings by $195 million.
Additionally, as we mentioned in the interim update, expenses related to the hurricanes reduced
earnings by roughly $400 million. These included incremental cost to abandon toppled platforms,
asset write-offs, and initial repairs. George will discuss our hurricane recovery efforts in more detail
in a few minutes.
Asset sales added about $350 million to third quarter profits. These included a non-operated
interest in a K2 property along with other smaller property sales. The Other bar on this chart is the
net of everything else. The largest single item was higher earnings in our Natural Gas marketing
division including gains on derivatives related to gas contracts. The magnitude of these gains was
directly related to the drop in natural gas prices during the quarter.
Turning to slide 6. International upstream earnings for the third quarter fell about $1.1 billion from
the second quarter’s results. Lower oil and natural gas prices reduced earnings by $260 million.
Our average unit realizations for liquids fell about $7.70 per barrel between sequential quarters,
roughly $1.50 per barrel more than the average Brent spot price decline.

Lower liftings had a $635 million adverse impact on third quarter earnings. The largest reduction
was in Kazakhstan, reflecting lower production, which I’ll cover in the next slide. Liftings were also
lower in Azerbaijan, Angola, Congo, and China. Overall, third quarter liftings were about 2% less
than production, while we were slightly overlifted in the second quarter. Through nine months,
liftings and production were roughly in balance.
More than half of the adverse change in the DD&A & OpEx bar on the chart reflected impairments
of several mature fields in the North Sea. Operating expense was higher due to labor and
transportation costs and start-up costs of our Agbami project. The Other bar is the net of foreign
exchange effects, partly offset by the absence of favorable prior-quarter tax items and numerous
unrelated matters.
Slide 7 summarizes the quarterly change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes
produced from oil sands in Canada. Production fell by 94,000 barrels per day, or nearly 4%,
between periods. US production declined 55,000 barrels per day, chiefly as a result of shut-ins
during September for Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Outside the US, overall production dropped
39,000 barrels per day in the third quarter. In Kazakhstan, most of the 55,000 barrel per day
reduction reflected completion of TCO’s second-generation plant and concurrent annual facility
maintenance. These had a larger impact than we expected at the time of last quarter’s call. Lower
production at Karachaganak was also a factor. The increase in Nigerian volumes was due to the
startup of our Agbami project in late July. George will provide the outlook for production in the
fourth quarter and the full-year 2008 shortly.
Turning to slide 8. US downstream operations moved from a $680 million loss in the second quarter
to a $1 billion profit in the third quarter. Industry margins reduced earnings by $180 million.
Chevron’s actual margin capture and higher volumes in the third quarter increased earnings by
$100 million and partly offset the decline in industry indicator margins. Due to significantly less
planned refinery downtime in the third quarter, earnings improved by $380 million. Chevron’s US
refineries operated with minimal downtime. Given the extraordinary volatility of crude oil and refined
product prices and their impact on our downstream earnings, we’ve highlighted timing effects
during the last few quarterly calls.
West Texas Intermediate prices fell more than $39 per barrel from the end of the second quarter to
the end of the third quarter. This compares to an increase of over $38 per barrel during the
previous quarter. The unprecedented swing in prices during each period resulted in an earnings
change of $1.3 billion between sequential quarters. Of this $1.3 billion favorable variance shown
on the bar, about $700 million reflected the impact of provisionally-priced foreign crudes, which
lowered second quarter earnings on an absolute basis by $340 million and increased third quarter
earnings by $360 million. About $200 million of the $1.3 billion total was the swing from losses to
gains in marked-to-market derivatives related to a long-term fixed price crude purchase contract.
Over $120 million of the 1.3 billion reflected the absence of second quarter derivative losses related
to converting crudes from the acquisition price to the price at the time they were run. We
discontinued most of our derivative use for crude price conversion in the US in early June. The
balance of the timing effects primarily resulted from a favorable change in derivative impacts
related to the sales of refined products and from gains due to the timing of aviation fuel pricing and
all other supply-related timing effects.
We’ve revised our primary long haul crude supply agreement for our West Coast refineries.
Beginning with October liftings, all barrels will be priced at the average price during the month of
lifting, rather than at the time of discharge. This change will eliminate provisional pricing on these
crudes and we expect it to significantly reduce the timing effects in our US downstream earnings.
However, fourth quarter earnings will include the impacts of final pricing adjustments for October
and November deliveries that were lifted during the third quarter.

Returning to the chart, the Other bar is largely due to better lubricant margins and the absence of
pipeline impairments I mentioned last quarter.
Turning to slide 9. International downstream earnings improved to $817 million from the second
quarter’s loss. Margins were a minor favorable item, as improved marketing margins overcame
weaker refining margins. Volumes benefited slightly following completion of repairs at our
Pembroke refinery in the UK. As in the US, international downstream timing effects were a major
factor in the favorable change between quarters, as the price of crude and petroleum products fell
significantly.
Of the $860 million favorable timing effects shown in the bar, more than half was related to
derivative gains on sales of long-haul equity crude and refined products, such as Partitioned
Neutral Zone crude and Pembroke product exports. As I mentioned last quarter, we often use
derivatives to lock in a margin above the cost of transportation, which can result in gains when
prices decrease and vice versa.
More than $100 million of the 860 million total shown in the bar reflected gains in the third quarter
as compared to losses in the second quarter on derivatives used to convert crude pricing to the
time of refinery run. The balance of the timing effects is primarily due to favorable inventory
impacts, gains due to the timing of aviation fuel pricing, and all other supply-related timing effects.
Going forward, we’re taking actions as appropriate to reduce the volatility of this segment to price
fluctuations.
The Other bar on this slide shows a $51 million adverse variance between quarters. This is the net
of foreign exchange gains, offset by operating costs and tax items.
Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $70 million in the third quarter,
compared to $41 million in the second quarter. Results for olefins improved on higher margins
along with lower operating expense. Aromatics results fell somewhat due to startup costs for the
Jubail Chevron Phillips styrene operation. The Other bar reflects lower additive earnings.
Slide 11 covers All Other. Third quarter results were net charges of $190 million compared to net
charges of $580 million in the second quarter. $190 million of the swing reflects lower environment
charges, and $110 million stems from a favorable variance in tax items. The Other bar on slide 11
includes the net of many unrelated items which were of favorable variance between sequential
quarters.

In total, the third quarter net charge was less than our standard guidance of 250 million to $300
million for the various reasons stated in the interim update.
Before turning it over to George, I’d just like to briefly recap the third quarter. Upstream earnings
and volumes were down somewhat, in line with the interim update. We experienced a strong
improvement in downstream performance due to timing effects arising from sharply declining crude
and product prices and less refinery downtime, also as outlined in the interim update. Finally, as
projected, chemical results benefited from higher margins.
George Kirkland is now going to provide an update on our production outlook for 2008, our
hurricane recovery plans, and our upstream project status for 2009. George?

George L. Kirkland, Executive Vice President, Global Upstream and Gas
Thanks Jim. Before I update you on the major capital projects, I’d like to review our production.
Please turn to slide 13.

This graph compares net OEG production through the first nine months of 2008 versus the first nine
months of last year. Total OEG production through the third quarter was 2.53 million barrels per
day. Although production is down 95,000 barrels per day, about 80,000 barrels per day of this loss
is attributable to price effects on the net entitlement barrels, and 17,000 barrels a day is attributable
to the disruptions from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in the Gulf of Mexico. I’ll discuss the hurricane
impacts in just a few moments.
Despite these losses we have been very successful in managing our base business declines and
capturing gains from major capital projects that have recently come on line. The low base business
decline is a positive indicator of our base business efforts, where we have experienced improved
reliability across the enterprise. Adjusting for favorable gas market conditions in the Asia-Pacific
region, and the Indonesian unitization settlement, our base business decline rate is approaching
the low end of our 4 to 5% decline guidance.
Now I’ll update you on the production outlook for the remainder of the year. Please turn to slide 14.
Assuming fourth quarter prices will average approximately $70 a barrel and thereby approximately
$100 a barrel for the whole year, our 2008 production outlook is estimated at 2.55 million barrels of
oil equivalent per day. This graph compares the 2008 outlook to year-to-date third quarter actuals
and our fourth quarter production outlook.
The last bar on the right shows the 2008 guidance provided last January. Absent the yearly price
effects of about 60,000 barrels per day, and hurricane disruptions which we estimate to be about
35,000 barrels per day, the full-year net production would be in line with the prior guidance.
The fourth quarter production forecast is estimated at 2.62 million barrels per day, significantly
higher than year-to-date actuals. This is driven by two factors: The continued ramp-up of our major
capital projects, principally Agbami and the Tengiz expansion, and lower prices.
Project ramp-ups are estimated to add approximately 170,000 barrels per day during the quarter.
The impact of lower prices on net entitlement barrels associated with production sharing contracts
will likely increase production by about 45,000 barrels per day during the quarter.
Offsetting these gains are hurricane disruptions which are estimated at 65,000 barrels per day for
the quarter and the continued base business declines which includes ongoing operational
difficulties in Azerbaijan.
I would like to now spend a few moments to provide additional details on hurricanes. Please turn to
slide 15.
This slide shows the trajectory of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike with respect to Chevron leases in the
Gulf of Mexico. The leases are shown in yellow. The windfield for Hurricane Gustav is shown in red
and for Hurricane Ike in green.
We are pleased to report that we’re – there were zero safety incidents associated with the
evacuation of personnel from our offshore facilities. 3500 personnel were safely evacuated for
Gustav and 1500 for Ike. We did sustain damage from the storms. Overall there were 13 toppled
structures, 4 leaning structures and 3 missing well heads. The long-term impact of this damage on
production is not great. It is estimated that between 6 to 10,000 barrels a day will be permanently
lost. In the deepwater areas, there was some minor damage sustained at Petronius and Genesis,
where production is now being restored. There no damage to the Blind Faith facility, and only
minor damage to Tahiti.
I’d now like to share an update on the current restoration effort and forecast. If you would, please
turn to slide 16.

This chart shows the anticipated net OEG production restoration profile by month. The actual
restored production to date is shown in the solid blue line and the outlook is in the dashed line.
Pre-Gustav, production from the Gulf of Mexico averaged about 190,000 barrels of oil equivalent
per day. As of this week, total restored production is 55% of pre-storm levels. Of the remaining
production to be restored, about three-quarters is dependent on the timing of third-party pipeline
repairs. Let me assure you that we have a dedicated team of professionals actively working with
our partners and stakeholders to keep our restoration efforts on track.
I’d like now to provide an update on our major capital projects. Please turn to slide 17.
Chevron has reached some critical major capital project milestones in 2008. So far this year, six
projects have started up. It is also anticipated that another two will start up in the fourth quarter:
North Duri Area 12 in Indonesia, and Blind Faith in the Gulf of Mexico. On July 29, our Nigerian
affiliate commenced crude oil production from the Agbami field. This is a significant
accomplishment. Agbami’s initial gross oil equivalent production has ramped up to more than
110,000 barrels per day. We anticipate the ramp-up to continue, reaching 250,000 barrels per day
by the end of 2009.
On September 22, our Tengizchevroil affiliate completed a major expansion at the Tengiz field in
Kazakhstan that has nearly doubled production capacity to 540,000 barrels per day. Remember
that the first phase of this expansion started up during the fourth quarter of 2007. All phases are
now complete and commissioned.
In Western Australia, on September 1, the fifth train at the North West Shelf’s venture liquefied
natural gas facility became operational. This production facility is expected to increase the joint
venture’s export capacity by about 4 million metric tons of LNG annually, to 16.3 million metric tons.
During the second quarter, in conjunction with our joint venture partners, first oil was achieved from
the Moho-Bilondo field in the Republic of Congo.
Please turn to slide 18.
Other projects that have achieved first production during the first three quarters of 2008 are ACG
Phase III in Azerbaijan, and Brodgar-Callanish in United Kingdom. I’ll now touch on the remaining
project startups for 2008.
In the Gulf of Mexico, the last stages of commissioning are taking place at the Blind Faith facility,
and first oil is anticipated in November. There was no damage to the facility during Hurricane Ike,
but it did disrupt commissioning activities. In Indonesia, the next phase development at the heavyoil Duri field remains on schedule and is also expected to start up in November.
Now, let’s turn to slide 19.
Looking forward to 2009, I’d like to provide you with a status on the major capital project milestones
that are anticipated next year. Let’s start in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater, with our Tahiti project.
The project is progressing on schedule. The spar hole was installed during the first quarter, and
the top-side modules during the third quarter of this year. The facility sustained minor damage
during Hurricane Ike and will be repaired during ongoing hook-up and commissioning activities.
However, this will not delay the project, and we still anticipate first oil by the third quarter of 2009.
In Brazil, at the Frade field, construction of the FPSO is 85% complete, with a sail-away from Dubai
expected in late December. First oil is expected during the second quarter of 2009. In Angola, the
Tombua Landana project remains on schedule to meet first oil during the second half of 2009. The
hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico did not significantly impact the schedule for sail-away of the
various compliant piled tower components. The large-scale Steam Pilot project in the Partitioned
Neutral Zone also remains on schedule. If this pilot is successful, it will lead to a full-field
development at Wafra. First steam injection is expected during early 2009.

Finally, I would like to provide a summary of other key 2008 upstream highlights. Please turn to
slide 20.
On September 10, we announced the extension and amendment of the Partitioned Neutral Zone
operating agreement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This agreement extends the existing
arrangement for 30 years, through 2039. In Canada, at the Hebron field, formal binding
agreements were signed in August between Hebron projects proponents and the government of
Newfoundland and Labrador. These agreements pave the way for the project to proceed. During
the third quarter, Chevron transferred operatorship to ExxonMobile following ratification by coventure partners.
In Australia, our LNG projects are progressing toward key milestones. At Gorgon, the joint venture
is pursuing a project scope of three 5 million metric tons per annum LNG trains. A final investment
decision is expected after environmental approvals have been provided by the State and
Commonwealth for the third train proposal, and following the completion of engineering and design.
Wheatstone, which represents a tremendous growth opportunity for Chevron Australia, is
progressing towards feed. It builds on our extensive natural gas resources in Western Australia,
and is expected to make our company a leading natural gas supplier and operator of LNG facilities
in the Asia-Pacific region. We announced our intention during the first quarter to develop
Wheatstone as a greenfield onshore LNG and domestic gas project.
And finally at Chuandongbei, we expect the initial FID by the end of this year. The appropriate
engineering and design work required to sanction the project work – the project is on track. We
assumed operational control of the existing operations in August.
This concludes the project update, and now I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
Thank you, George. That concludes our prepared remarks. We’ll now take your questions, one
question and one follow-up per caller, please. Matt, open the lines for questions. Thanks.

Operator: Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mark Flannery from
Credit Suisse. Your question please.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Thanks, yeah. Just a question for George. We’re coming into budgeting
season. Things are looking very different on the commodity side. Nobody really knows what’s
going to happen in 2009, of course, but given what’s happened to oil prices, could you tell me what
you’re thinking about when you think about the ‘09 CapEx budgets for the upstream, particularly
with regard to the more capital-intensive end of the spectrum? I’m not looking for a number,
because I know we won’t get one, but just what’s – what’s your thought process around that right
now?

<A – George Kirkland>: Let’s just first start off that we haven’t finished our budgeting process.
We’re going through the approval process, we’ve been working through that. Our thought
processes are, any project that has already moved into construction, past FID, those projects will
move very much through their cycle, wouldn’t ever slow those down. And we anticipate trying to
hold our capital spending pretty much in line of where we’ve been this year. We don’t like
fluctuating our capital spend up and down. Our view on pricing really has not – our long-term view
on pricing’s not changed. So I would look at this point at capital spending very similar between
years, and recognize, if we have something different we want to change, we have flexibility on
near-term projects, not our long-term projects. We really can’t back off our long-term projects.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Mark, let me just expand a little bit on just the mechanics that George
alluded to. We’re right in the middle now of finalizing our business plans and the capital spending
for 2009. And per our normal practice, it would be our intention to have a release and provide the
2009 capital program some time around the middle of December. So about six weeks from now I
think would be the approximate time you’ll hear our final program for next year.
Do you have a follow-up question?
<Q – Mark Flannery>: I do, and it’s on the same topic. I guess I would – I wondered, George,
could you characterize the capital expenditure program that you have or you’re putting together for
2009? How much of that would you describe as fully discretionary, i.e., not part of projects that
have gone through FID, not part of projects about to meet FID, that kind of thing. What’s the wiggle
room, would you think, in the budget?
<A – George Kirkland>: Just an estimate, without numbers in front of me, and recognizing that
probably 75, 80% of our project expenditures are related to projects that are post-FID. So, those
are pretty far along at this point. So there’s not a lot of wiggle room in the first year. Our wiggle
room in capital spending is much greater in the second year of our budget cycle, and of course,
very large amount in our third year of a budget cycle.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: That’s very helpful. Thank you very much.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Mark. May we have the next questioner please?
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays Capital. Your question, please.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hey gentlemen.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Also then, my question is related to CapEx. I know you’re not going to talk on
numbers, so I am not asking that. But George, when you’re looking at with the potentially oil
services cost and the raw material cost might still everything are coming down, is there a tradeoff, if
the certain project, if you delay it, even if they’re current – already FID, delay it? You may be able
to gain a much lower cost structure? And so want to see that, I mean, how you view on that?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, there’s no doubt, for projects that have not reached FID, where you
don’t have contracts with the – and what we’re expecting is, we are expecting that the cost of goods
and services are going to come down. So, we would, I think, look very strongly at slight
movements on projects that made sense from the cost of building them, if it’s going to come down,
we would look at sliding those a little bit.
I actually see this as a real opportunity for companies like Chevron. I do expect the cost of goods
and services to come down. I think the financing is going to hurt others to move projects forward.
So my expectation is shipyards and equipment manufacturers, there’ll be less pressure on them
than there’s been, so I think there’s going to be some benefit for some of our future big projects
with cost reductions.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Paul, did you have a follow-up question?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Yeah, if I could. It’s actually somewhat unrelated. Tengiz now, you said
540,000 barrels a day. I think that’s a long time objective there still ultimately get to 700,000 barrels
a day plus. Want to see if George have any update of where we are in that process?

<A – George Kirkland>: Let me deal with their expansion. Our expansion, the name plate on it,
was 540. We’ve reached that, and we don’t yet know if we can get a few more barrels out of it, but
my expectation is that we’re probably going be able to get a few barrels and maybe by our March
meeting with the analyst, that we’ll have a little more word on that, to see if we’ve been able to
increase the capacity further.
We are also – I believe I mentioned at our Analyst Meeting in – earlier in March this year, that we
were looking at the next expansion for Tengiz. We’d like to move that – the engineering work
forward as fast as we can. We’ve learned an awful lot about what we can do on big, big projects in
the Kazakhstan area, of where we operate Tengiz, so it’s a good time to be ready to move forward
with the next expansion. And we will know a little more information about the performance, of
course, on the gas injection as the year plays on out. So I think all those things line up for us to
want to move the next expansion forward. Of course, we have to get our partners and – all of our
partners on board with that.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: George, can I put in a quick question in here? For Tengiz, with the SGO, are
you guys will able to put more reserve this year?
<A – George Kirkland>: I think it’s a little premature to talk about reserves. We’re just in the
process of going through our reserve reviews around the world, and I’d really rather wait to talk
about reserve bookings, preferably actually to the March meeting, when by that time, we’ve done all
our work.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul, and I would just add that the current SEC rules are still in
place, although they’ve come out where they – a proposal for modification of the definition. But it’s
still using prices at a point in time at the end of 2008, and as George mentioned, we may have
some preliminary numbers that we can share with you in terms of reserves in the January call, but
we don’t really finalize all of our work until February and have it available then for the 10K, and then
the further discussion at the March ‘09 Analyst Meeting. Thanks, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: May we have the next questioner, please?
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon from Sanford Bernstein. Your question, please?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi. I’ve got questions related to project timing. Just move on some of your
previous answers, George. There’s – you mentioned that Gorgon, you’re now planning three 5
million ton trains, and one presumes, since it hasn’t gone to FID yet, that there is scope to discuss
materials costs and contractor costs. Have you any rough idea if Gorgon – what timing you would
expect Gorgon to come on and at? And if the current credit market or falling prices for products and
services may delay that a little bit?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well I think it maybe in the earlier question, I actually – I was trying to
foreshadow that I actually see a potential advantage for our big LNG projects that have not reached
FID, the cost reduction of goods and services is really I think very, very good news for those kind of
projects. So very positive from that point of view.
Our long-term view of prices of oil and gas have not changed, which is how we always looked at
our economics. So in some ways, with cost of goods and services I think potentially coming down,
it’s a benefit to those large projects. And once again, it reinforces – this financial crisis reinforces
the advantages of – that companies like Chevron have, with very, very strong balance sheets, and
are not I think held hostage to getting loans to do our projects. So, from that perspective, I think it
may actually be of benefit for us in some of our very, very large projects.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: I’d just add, Neil, we have the advantage of having a very strong balance
sheet and we got to this point because we look a long-term view of the commodity price cycle,
strengthened our balance sheet when commodity prices were rising so as to weather a downturn or
advantage ourselves of opportunities.
We also have the other aspect that George mentioned, and that is, we have a great project queue.
So tremendous strength, but also, tremendous opportunities. Neil, do you have a follow-up?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Yes, Stephen, I appreciate all of that, and that’s good to hear. It was really
– again, around Gorgon – just a rough timing on when that project would be coming on, I’m
presuming the second half of the next decade. And then, as we’re talking about projects, maybe
George could give an update on Jack and St. Malo as well?
<A – George Kirkland>: Let me deal with Gorgon, saying our target is FID in the second half of
2009. So sometime mid-year or a little bit after, we’d like to be to FID. I would then like to come
out, as we approach FID, and then get a – give a definitive date. I don’t think it’s quite as long as
what you mentioned. I’d pull it back a little bit from that. But once again, it’s – I’d much rather talk
about that in detail once we get closer to the FID point.
Okay, and then on Jack and St. Malo, we’re – we still have not – we still have appraisal wells to
complete on both Jack and St. Malo, and until we get those appraisal wells drilled and evaluated,
we really can’t comment on further timing. I would anticipate that we would be able to make a
pretty strong view – our views on timing for Jack and St. Malo between the Analyst Call in late
January to the time we get together in March. Somewhere in that timeframe, we should have a
pretty good idea of our path forward.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Great, thanks.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Neil. May we have the next questioner, please?
Operator: The next question’s from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank. Your question, please.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi guys. Just one on upstream, and one on finance, if I could. I’ll slip in a few
parts to it. Firstly, George, you mentioned 22650 (sic) would be your production level for 2008 at
$70 oil. Could you indicate what level you would expect for 2009, given the impressive list of
projects you’ve listed?
Secondly, the decline rate that you talked about, at 4%. I think towards 4% is what you said. Would
that be sensitive to the oil price being lower, in terms of how hard you defend that number?
And finally, it’s – on the upstream side, if you could talk about exploration and any highlights that
you’ve got coming up over the coming year? Thanks.
<A – George Kirkland>: It’s a long list there. Let me start<Q – Paul Sankey>: That was one question, George.

<A – George Kirkland>: Very well strung together. The 2009 production number, I much prefer to
talk about that at the January – or have Steve or others talk about it at the January meeting.
There’s an awful – and I hope everyone recognize that there’s an awful lot of moving parts going on
right now. Hurricane restoration has potential significant swings, and as I mentioned in my
comments today, three-quarters of the remaining barrels that we have off there are not dependent
on what we do. They’re dependent on third-party pipelines. So we have that concern. We have all
these projects coming on, and including Tahiti, and the timing of all these big projects, when they
come on, one quarter, one month, all of these make a significant difference.
A lot of these points will be nailed down. By the end of the year, we’re knowing – we’re going to
know an awful lot about where we are on hurricanes. We’re going to know ramp up on Agbami to a
much better extent. Blind Faith was going to be on by then, so we’ll have some performance data
on it. And we’ll have a pretty good idea of exact timing on Tahiti, which is a bunch of big barrels for
us. It’s another project where we have high working interest.
So from that perspective, I’d – and we typically give our guidance for 2000 – that year in the
January meeting, so we’re going to hold with that, and we’ll give that guidance at the next quarter’s
call.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: I’d just add, on top of George’s comments, for all the reasons that he cited,
as we had done this year, when we give the guidance for 2009, net OEG production, we’ll ping it off
a specific crude price, recognizing the workings of various contract agreements overseas can affect
net production.
I think you had another question -<Q – Paul Sankey>: Well I was asking about <A – Stephen Crowe>: – on the decline rate?
<Q – Paul Sankey>: – yeah, I’m sorry. I was asking about the underlying – you mentioned that you
had a 4 – you implied that it was close to 4% decline rate, based on I guess higher activity levels in
defending the base. I just wondered if, with the lower oil prices, if that’s going to be still
defendable? I guess it’s really a follow-up to the CapEx question in some ways.
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, we’ve tried to take the price effects out of our decline rate analysis
and give you numbers that really don’t reflect the price itself. We try to pull the price effects out of
there to the best we can.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: No, I was thinking more about activity levels, George.
<A – George Kirkland>: Okay.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Are you going to do less, because the oil price is lower?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, once again, you got to remember, a lot of contracts for rigs you’re
already set for a year and six months. So there’s limited change that you’re going to make in a
short-term program. And I would tell you, typically the very strongest returned projects, when you
look at rate of returns on your investment, tend to be those projects that are off of current
infrastructure and tie-ins. So those development wells and workovers tend to have the very, very
best economics.
I would tell you that we will make decisions during the year for certain contracts as they’re coming
up, if it looks to be advantageous for us to decide to go out to the market and bid for a rig in lieu of
doing a contract extension, we will do that, to make sure we attract the best prices to do our work.
So we will make some choices like that, very tactical choices during the year.
I can’t at this point in time speculate how all that will play out. It could have some minor effect on
our base decline, but I think it’s just way too early to speculate.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: George, the third part of Paul’s question dealt with <Q – Paul Sankey>: That was the third part of part one.
<A – George Kirkland>: Oh yes.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: The third part of the first question was on exploration.
<A – George Kirkland>: Well our exploration focus is still very much in those focus areas I’ve
talked about. We’ve been drilling wells in Australia and we’ve got – we haven’t made any
announcements, but we have been doing quite a bit of work in Australia. And I expect we’ll cover
that later through some announcements.
We’ve also been – we are just starting several wells in the Lower Tertiary in the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico. It’s too early to make anything of a report except the wells have been spudded. And we’re
continuing to drill some exploration wells in the focus area of West Africa. But I don’t really have
any specific updates beyond that. We’ll give a very broad update, and I’d say detailed update, once
again, at our Analyst Meeting in March.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: But the developments this year – the development – it feels like a quiet year
for exploration.
<A – George Kirkland>: Our exploration program, I will tell you, we try to keep it very consistent.
We try not to yo-yo it up and down. That’s my expectation again for next year. We always like to
drill anywhere from 15 to 20 high-impact wells around the world, and then of course, a large
number of appraisal wells and delineation wells. So my expectation would be a program similar to
what we have done the last few years. Once again, we don’t like to yo-yo them up and down.
We’ve got rig contracts. We plan for the long term, and we try to maintain evenness in those
programs.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Paul, you’ve got one more question?
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, very quickly. One for you, Stephen. The pension. Anything to say
about pension funding and the outlook there? Thanks. I’ll leave it there. Thank you.

<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Paul. Well it certainly – the market value of our pension trust fund
obviously has gone down with the market in the last several months. We don’t have any required
funding requirements under the PPA or ERISA. As you may recall, particularly earlier in this
decade, we’ve – have an approach towards funding that we call opportunistic funding. Well when
we have sufficient cash or cash flows, and can assure ourselves of tax deductibility in making a
contribution.
I guess I’d say at this juncture, the disclosures that Chevron’s made in its 10-K and 10-Q still
pertain, including our ongoing economic review to fund more than we have there, indicated in our
SEC filings. So keeping in mind that the PBO obligation under PPA discount rules results in higher
discount rates, the magnitude of the funding is better than you might think, just looking at the
reduction in the asset values. So I guess I’d take you back to our disclosures that we’ve made in
earlier 10-Qs and the one that you’ll see in our 10-Q next week.
May we have the next questioner, please?
Operator: Your next question is from Michael LaMotte of JPMorgan. Your question, please.

<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Thanks, good morning guys. I’d like to follow up on this base decline
number, George, if I could quickly. In slide 13, the 55,000 barrel a day number implies a 2.1%
rate? At the Analyst Meeting in March, the same slide showing ‘07 versus ‘06 was about a 1%
decline. And I know in your – or 1.6 I guess. And I know in your remarks, you mentioned operating
challenges in Azerbaijan as one of the reasons for the base decline. I guess the question I’m
asking is, is it all Azerbaijan? Are there issues related to that that explain that whole delta? And can
2% hold?
<A – George Kirkland>: I keep going back, and we track this base business very closely, because
we’ve had good success, and it has been lower for now, I think, probably four or five quarters, less
than the 4 to 5%. I would tell everybody, remember, those barrels are in the bank. That’s moved
our production up and held our production, so that’s a real positive. But I tried to also give a little
color on this 55, that there were other things going on in there that benefited our base and reduced
that decline. One of those was the unitization agreement in Indonesia that we highlighted in an
earlier call. I believe it was a first quarter call, or maybe<A – Stephen Crowe>: It was. First quarter.
<A – George Kirkland>: First quarter call, and that had an impact. And we’ve also had better
marketing results, gas sales in the Asia-Pacific region, that in effect has raised the amount of base
production we’ve had there. So it kind of ma- it’s not a really a fair comparison on base decline
without taking that into effect.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Okay.
<A – George Kirkland>: And when you add those pieces back, it gets back to the low end of this –
it gets back in the 4% range, approximately. So we feel good for planning purposes. We’re going to
continue to hold this 4 to 5% as kind of a planning – our planning model. But then, when we look at
our actuals and the processes we put in place, we’re hopeful that we’re going to continue to see
that we’re able to do a little bit better than that. So we’re going to look back at performance, and
we’re going to plan forward, at least for some period of time still, in this 4 to 5% range.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Mike, did you have a follow-up?
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: I did. Thank you for that color, George. If you wouldn’t mind expanding a
bit on the impairment to North Sea assets as well?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: We had – Jim, do you want to field that one?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Yeah, we had impairment of a number of very small fields in the Dutch North
Sea, as well as the UK North Sea. These are mature fields, and they are very small largely in
terms of production. So those are not tremendously material to us.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: They were all reaching the end of their productive lives. So we took the
asset values down.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Okay, very good. Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: You bet. May we have our next questioner, please?
Operator: Our next question is from Erik Mielke from Merrill Lynch. Your question please.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Good morning, gentlemen.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Hi, Erik.

<Q – Erik Mielke>: I have two questions, the first one for George, and the second one for Steve
probably. Firstly, on the Partitioned Neutral Zone in Saudi, I understand that you’re not willing to
get into a huge reserve discussion at this point, but can you clarify whether the extension of the
contract would automatically lead to additional reserves being bookable for you?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, our normal reserve process only allows us to book reserves through
the existing contract life. The contract life without the extension would have been ending in
February of 2009, and now it will go to 2039. So with that extended period, there will be proved
reserves that will be booked as a part of that extension.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: That’s very clear. Thanks, and<A – Stephen Crowe>: And do you have another?
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Yes, my second question is more on cash management. If I hear you correctly,
it sounds like CapEx is something that you intend to keep at current levels, even if prices were to
go, let’s say $10 lower than where they are today. For the rest of your cash management, how do
you balance between holding cash, accelerating buybacks, or scaling back buybacks and
potentially increasing dividends? And then also, can you clarify where you currently keep your
cash?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Erik. Well I’ll begin on a short-term issue. It’s our intention here
in the fourth quarter to maintain the share buyback pace at $2 billion in the fourth quarter, just as
we’ve done for the last five quarters.
In terms of cash management and balancing, I think first and foremost, we want to make sure we
fund the capital program that we feel is such a robust program with a very deep queue. So that’s
our first and foremost use of operating cash.
Secondly, we’re mindful of our, gee, 21-, 22-year record of increasing annual payouts in our
dividend, and would fully want to maintain that progress over time.
Thirdly, as I had alluded to before, we do want to maintain a strong balance sheet through the
commodity price cycle, and we’re in a – I think an enviable position right now, as having one of the
strongest balance sheets in the industry.
As to share buybacks, we take all of the other considerations into account, and make a
determination as to whether or not there is enough of a cash flywheel to fund further buybacks. We
take a look at economic conditions, market conditions going forward, and would plan on giving
guidance to the investment community, just as we’re doing now, at the call each quarter for at least
one quarter ahead. But as for right now, we’re coming off two quarters of consecutive record
earnings, a very, very strong balance sheet, strong cash flows, more cash than debt, and we see
another $2 billion here in the buybacks in the fourth quarter.
Could we have the next question please?
Operator: Our next question is from Peter McNally from Galleon. Your question, please.
<Q>: It’s all right. My question has been answered. Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Peter. Could we have the next questioner, please?
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark. Your question, please?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Guys, good morning, good afternoon. George, wonder if you could tell me,
associated with the new concession at the Partitioned Neutral Zone, did you benefit, or would you
benefit, from any change in fiscal terms, should you decide to proceed with a full-field steamflood
there?
<A – George Kirkland>: Mark, first off, it’s not a new – it’s an extension of existing. So it’s an
extension of the existing contract there. And at this point in time, I will not discuss the terms of a
future full-field steam development. I would rather hold that off until we get closer to that decision
point.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, let me try my follow-up. I believe your received approval to proceed
with a Makassar Strait development project, with respect to some of the resources that Unocal had
identified years ago. I’m curious as to whether that gas is to go to Bontang, or dedicate – or to be
dedicated to the domestic market? And is there an agreement to allow for Pertamina to participate
as an equity partner?
<A – George Kirkland>: Mark, that agreement to develop and the plan of development there has
not been fully approved. So we don’t have all the approvals yet on that. So at this point, I really
can’t talk about it, because we have not – once again, we don’t have all the approvals. It’s been
reported in the press a couple of times, but all the pieces have not been put together, it – so it’s not
been reported correctly.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Since I got two strikes, let me try one more quick one.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Sorry.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: George, with respect to the production sharing contract impacts that you’ve
cited in several of your slides, can you segment that between those losses that would be
considered permanent, associated with threshold return and/or full capital cost recovery, versus
those reductions that are associated more with operating cost and continuing capital cost recovery?
<A – George Kirkland>: Mark, I can’t do that at this time. That’s a lot of detail. I will tell you, we
have – some of it has been related to triggers. In other words, return triggers that will change the
distribution in effect of profit oil. So we have that. We have some that is royalty pieces which reach
triggers with higher royalty rates, but I – we – first off, I don’t we ever would try to share that kind of
detail. That’s an awful lot of detail. We’d rather try to give you each year kind of a guideline that
kind of matches what we think’s going to happen for the year at a price scenario, or a price range.

This last year we’ve been telling you it’s been about $2 – for every dollar a barrel – at every dollar
per barrel impact on price, it’s about 2,000 barrels per day change, and that’s kind of been what it
has. We will update that again for the year 2009, which will be once again looking forward, and
we’ll look at price impacts and production impacts together.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Mark, what we’ll try to do on the January call then is, when we give our
guidance for 2009 production, at a specified price, based on that specified price, we’ll try to give the
investment community a rule of thumb to use, to know how to adjust that if prices are above or
below that amount.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, guys, thanks. I’m taking my bat and going back to the dugout.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Okay, Mark. May we have the next questioner, please?
Operator: Our final question today is from Neil McMahon from Sanford Bernstein. Your question,
please.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi. Just – not really a follow-up. Something a bit different for you, Steve.
What was the tax rate difference between the second quarter and the third quarter?
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Of this year?

<Q – Neil McMahon>: Of this year, yes.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Yeah, well, in the third quarter our tax rate was just about 45%, and in the
second quarter, it was about 49%. And the lower rate for the third quarter of this year was
associated with a greater proportion of income being earned in tax jurisdictions with lower tax rates.
We also had an impact in the second quarter of a reduction in the tax rate in Bangladesh.
So on an ongoing basis, as we’ve guided in the past, allowing for the different taxing jurisdictions
and being an integrated company, our guidance would be to use sort of an average rate of about
45%, or in that neighborhood at least.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay, that’s great. Thank you.
<A – Stephen Crowe>: Thanks, Neil. Matt, are there any questioners in line?
Operator: We have no further questions at this time.

Stephen J. Crowe, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Okay. Well thank you, Matt.
In closing, let me say that we appreciate everybody’s participation on today’s call, and I especially
want to thank each of the analysts, on behalf of all the participants, for their questions during this
morning session.
Matt, back to you.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s Third Quarter 2008 Earnings
Conference Call. You may now disconnect. Good day.