Operator: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
I would now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. Dave O’Reilly. Please go ahead, sir.

David J. O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Matt, and welcome to Chevron’s fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Jim
Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations.
Pat took over as CFO from Steve Crowe who retired last month, and has extensive experience in
all aspects of Chevron’s financial operations. Most recently, Pat has been our Vice President and
Treasurer, and prior to that was Vice President of Government and Public Affairs, and before that
Vice President of Strategic Planning. You’ll have an opportunity to meet her at our meeting in New
York on March 10.
Pat, I’ll turn the meeting over to you.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Dave. Let’s turn now to Chevron’s financial and operating results for the fourth quarter of
2008. We’ll refer to the slides that are available on the web.
Before we get started, please remember that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and
other forward-looking statements. We ask you review the cautionary statement on slide two.
I’ll begin with slide three, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s
fourth quarter earnings were 4.9 billion, or $2.44 per diluted share. Our total fourth quarter 2008
earnings were about the same as fourth quarter 2007. Earnings per share, however, were up
about 5% due to our share repurchase program. Comparing the fourth quarter 2008 to the same
period a year earlier, lower crude oil and natural gas prices reduced upstream results, while falling
prices improved profits in the downstream segment.
To recap the balance of slide three: return on capital employed for the year was nearly 27%.
Underscoring Chevron’s financial strength, the debt ratio was below 10% at the end of the year,
and cash balances exceeded debt by 700 million. Share repurchases were 8 billion for the year.
Our latest share repurchase program was authorized by the Board in September 2007 for up to 15
billion over a period of up to three years. We have now repurchased 10.1 billion of the $15 billion
authorized. We do not anticipate repurchasing shares in the first quarter of 2009. Finally,
Chevron’s 2008 TSR of negative 18% compares favorably to the S&P 500’s return of negative 37%
and a 37% decline in the AMEX Oil Index.
Turning to slide four, our total capital spend for 2008 was 22.8 billion compared with our budget of
22.9 billion. Upstream spending accounted for 17.5 billion of that total. Our cash C&E, which
excludes our equity share of affiliate outlays, was 20.5 billion. Our announced capital program for
2009 of 22.8 billion is unchanged from 2008 expenditures. However, about 10% of the total 2009
budget relates to large one-time payments for concessions in the Partition Neutral Zone and
Chuandongbei gas field. Excluding these items, underlying spending in the upstream segment is
budgeted to be lower than last year.
Of the overall 2009 capital program, 77% is for upstream activities, reflecting the capital-intensive
phase of some of our long-term growth projects. Another 19% is earmarked for the downstream for
a number of investments to upgrade our refining network.
Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. So, Jim, over to you.

Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks Pat.
My remarks compare results for the fourth quarter 2008 with the third quarter 2008. As a reminder,
our earnings release compared fourth quarter 2008 with the same quarter a year earlier.
Turning to slide five. Fourth quarter net income was about $3 billion lower than the third quarter.
Starting with the left side of the chart, lower crude oil and natural gas prices caused worldwide
upstream results to decline by more than $3 billion. Similar to the prior quarter, falling commodity
prices benefited the downstream segment in the fourth quarter. The variance in the Other bar
reflects lower chemical earnings and higher corporate charges.
Slide six summarizes the results for our U.S. upstream operations. Lower crude oil and natural gas
prices reduced earnings by $1.6 billion. Chevron’s average U.S. crude oil realization was down
about $61 per barrel between quarters, similar to the average WTI change of about $59 per barrel
between the periods. Production volumes were down 4%, mainly due to the full-quarter impact of
September hurricane shut-ins. The volume impact reduced fourth quarter earnings by $100 million.
As mentioned in the interim update, lower charges related to the hurricanes benefited earnings by
about $350 million in the fourth quarter compared to the third. The fourth quarter included a gain of
about $600 million from an exchange transaction, which included the company’s interest in a
producing property in Utah. For comparison, asset sales added about $350 million to third quarter
profits. This difference of $250 million is shown on the chart. The Other bar is comprised of a
number of items, the largest of which was related to a change in natural gas inventories.
Turning to slide seven. International upstream earnings for the fourth quarter fell nearly $2 billion
from the third quarter’s results. Lower oil and gas prices reduced earnings by $2.8 billion. Our
average realizations per liquids fell about $56 per barrel between sequential quarters, compared to
the $59 per barrel decline in the average Brent spot price. Higher liftings benefited fourth quarter
earnings by $430 million. Liftings were higher in Kazakhstan due to the ramp-up of the Tengiz
expansion and completion of the third quarter facilities turnaround there. The ramp-up of Agbami in
Nigeria was also a significant factor.
The $210 million favorable variance in tax items shown on this slide reflect various issues in several
countries. Exploration expense was higher between quarters, reducing earnings by $140 million.
This was a result of several well write-offs, along with higher geological and geophysical
expenditures. The Other bar is primarily an increase in foreign currency gains.
Slide eight summarizes the quarterly change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including
volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Production increased by 97,000 barrels per day, or
4% between periods, though our fourth quarter prices benefited volumes by 73,000 barrels per day,
primarily due to production-sharing contracts and variable royalties. External constraints, such as
mandated curtailments by OPEC member host governments and lower natural gas demand,
reduced production by 51,000 barrels per day.

As mentioned earlier, the fourth quarter was impacted by the September hurricanes in the Gulf of
Mexico. The volumetric effect was an adverse variance of 27,000 barrels per day. Base business
declines of 17,000 barrels per day were more than offset by the ramp-up of production from the
Tengiz expansion, Agbami, Blind Faith, and the North West Shelf LNG Train 5.
Slide nine compares full-year 2008 OEG production, including volumes produced from oil sands in
Canada, to that of 2007. Price impacts on production-sharing contracts and variable royalties
reduced production by 72,000 barrels per day. WTI prices averaged $72 per barrel in 2007, in
contrast to $100 per barrel in 2008.
For the year 2008, external constraints, such as mandated curtailments by OPEC member host
governments and lower natural gas demand, reduced production by 13,000 barrels per day. The
full-year impact of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes was 35,000 barrels per day. Our base business
decline was 78,000 barrels per day, a drop of about 3%. I’ll discuss our outlook for the base
business decline in a moment.

Finally, our major capital projects, primarily the Tengiz expansion, Agbami, and the further ramp-up
of our 2007 Bibiyana field in Bangladesh, added 109,000 barrels per day to 2008 production. Blind
Faith came onstream late in 2008 and did not have a large impact on the full year.
2008 production of 2.53 million barrels per day came in 120,000 barrels per day lower than the
outlook we provided at the beginning of the year. The original 2008 outlook of 2.65 million barrels
per day assumed crude prices for the year would average $70 per barrel instead of the $100
average that actually occurred. Price effects, along with external constraints, and the September
hurricanes noted here, were the primary reasons for the difference. Our base business performed
slightly better than we assumed. Offsetting this, we experienced a six-month delay in the start-up
of Blind Faith. The rest of our projects started on time, but some ramped up more slowly than
originally planned.
Slide 10 shows our production outlook for 2009. We had previously provided guidance for 2008,
that each dollar change in crude prices would inversely change our production by about 2,000
barrels per day, due to the effect of production sharing and variable-royalty agreements. Because
certain thresholds have been reached under these agreements, our rule of thumb for 2009 is each
dollar change in crude prices affects production by roughly 1,200 barrels per day. As before, I’d
caution you that this rule of thumb is very approximate and actual results will differ. Each of the
underlying contracts is different.
On this basis, comparing 2009 at an assumed price of $50 per barrel, which is just based on last
week’s future prices, and 2008 at $100 per barrel, price effects would increase production by
60,000 barrels per day, as shown on the chart. External constraints, again, curtailments by OPEC
member host governments and market factors, are assumed to reduce production by 80,000
barrels per day. Base business declines and the impact of lower investment in the base business
are expected to reduce production by 180,000 barrels per day. This amount is an implied 7%
decline rate, in contrast to our previous 4 to 5% base decline guidance.
Due to lower expected oil and gas prices, spending on our base business to mitigate natural fuel
declines will be reduced in 2009. We’re still investing to mitigate these declines but at a lower level,
reflecting the lower level of oil and gas prices. The base barrels that we do not produce in 2009 will
still be there to produce when market conditions are more attractive.
Because of this temporarily higher base decline rate and market-driven investment deferrals, we do
not expect to achieve our full 3% compound annual production growth between 2005 and 2010.
We’ll update you further at our Annual Security Analyst Meeting in New York on March 10.

Finally, 2009 will benefit from the continued ramp-up and full-year production from our recent major
capital projects and from the new ones planned to come on line later this year, including Frade in
Brazil, Tahiti in the Gulf of Mexico, and Tombua Landana in Angola.
Turning to slide 11. U.S. downstream operations earned just over $1 billion, essentially flat with the
previous quarter. Indicator margins reduced earnings by $260 million. While marketing margins
improved, lower refining margins on the West and Gulf Coasts were a larger factor. The change in
the company’s realized margins tracked the change in indicator margins.
WTI prices fell more than $56 per barrel from the end of the third quarter to the end of the fourth
quarter. This exceeded the $39 per barrel drop that occurred during the prior quarter. These
sharply falling prices caused the downstream to have a large favorable timing effects in both
quarters. Timing effects were $80 million more favorable in the fourth quarter than in the third. On
an absolute basis, timing effects in the fourth quarter were about $700 million. The largest factor
was provisionally-priced foreign crude, which was $370 million in the fourth quarter, about the same
as it was in the third quarter.
In the previous conference call, I mentioned that the company revised the primary long haul crude
supply agreement to the West Coast refineries starting in October. However, August and
September liftings were still final-priced in October and November, when prices were about $35 a
barrel lower than at the end of the third quarter. We do not expect material timing effects from
provisionally-priced crudes in the first quarter for our U.S. operations.

The balance of the timing effects was primarily due to inventory, derivative gains associated with
sale of refined products, a favorable lag in aviation pricing, and other supply-related factors.
Finally, operating expenses declined, largely from lower fuel costs.
Turning to slide 12, international downstream earnings improved by $230 million, to more than $1
billion. Refining margins were lower in the fourth quarter, while marketing margins were mixed.
Overall, our realized margins fell $205 million between the sequential quarters. Volumes were
slightly lower during the fourth quarter, partly reflecting planned maintenance at our Pembroke
refinery in the UK. The volume effect was an adverse variance of $30 million.
Timing effects added $525 million to fourth quarter earnings compared to third quarter earnings.
The absolute amount of timing effects in the fourth quarter was roughly $850 million. Nearly half of
the increase between sequential quarters was related to derivative gains on long haul crude and
refined products, such as PNZ crude, Pembroke exports, and crude sales to equity affiliate
refineries.
As I mentioned during the last two quarters, we often use derivatives to lock in a margin above the
cost of transportation, which results in gains when prices decrease, and vice versa. The balance of
the timing effect between quarters resulted from gains on derivatives used to convert crude pricing
at the time of the refinery run, and a favorable lag in aviation pricing, as well as other supply-related
timing factors. The Other bar in this chart reflects an adverse change of $60 million between
quarters. Lower operating expense was more than offset by an adverse swing in foreign currency
effects.
Slide 13 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $28 million in the fourth quarter
compared to $70 million in the third quarter. Results for olefins decreased due to lower volumes
and prices. Aromatics earnings fell primarily because of a one-time impairment charge. The Other
bar reflects higher additive earnings.
Slide 14 covers all other net charges. Fourth quarter results were net charges of $365 million,
compared to net charges of $190 million in the third quarter. $310 million of the swing reflects
higher corporate charges across a number of areas. 70 million of the change stems from a
favorable variance in tax items. The Other bar in slide 14 includes the net of many unrelated items,
which were a $65 million favorable variance between the sequential quarters.
Before turning it over to Dave, I;d just like to briefly recap the fourth quarter. Upstream earnings fell
significantly, in line with the interim update. Downstream continues to benefit from sizable
derivative gains due to declining prices, also noted in the interim update. And last is projected
chemical earnings were lower, and all other charges exceeded the guidance range.
Dave O’Reilly will now summarize our 2008 strategic progress and provide some thoughts about
2009. Dave?

David J. O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Well, thank you, Jim, and turning to slide 15.
In 2008, we focused on execution and succeeded across the board. For several years, we’ve
made improvements in our safety performance and were among the best in class. In our upstream
business, we committed to starting up three major Chevron-operated projects, adding significantly
to our long-term production. The Tengiz expansion, Agbami, and Blind Faith are all on line and
performing well. We also started the first phase of the North Duri steamflood in Indonesia, and
achieved first production at five partner-operated projects.

We’ve talked about our exploration success for many years in a row, and 2008 was another banner
year for exploration, which we’ll discuss further at the March Security Analyst Meeting. We told the
investment community that our reserve replacement ratio would improve, and under a preliminary
basis, we estimate that we replaced 146% of our production in 2008.
In our downstream business, we pledged to improve refinery reliability. We delivered on that
pledge in 2008 and we’ve had our best utilization rates on record. 2008 represented a 6.5%
improvement in refinery utilization over the base year 2005. Our downstream portfolio
rationalization has continued in 2008, as we exited a number of non-strategic markets.
And finally, we rewarded our shareholders with another double-digit increase in our dividend, and
repurchased $8 billion of our shares. We did so while funding our robust capital program and
maintained a balance sheet with more cash than debt at the end of the year, so we enter these
challenging times with the financial strength and flexibility to succeed in the years ahead.
Turning to slide 16, let’s just look at 2009 briefly. In our upstream business, we’re on track to start
up three more Chevron-operated projects, further demonstrating our organic growth potential. We
are also focused on the work needed to continue to advance in our strategically important projects
in core areas such as Australia and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
In the downstream business, we’re maintaining our focus on refinery utilization to capture the most
margin that the market will permit, and we’re continuing to rationalize our portfolio to focus on our
strongest markets and those with the most potential for long-term value creation.
Across the enterprise, we’re focused on managing our costs. The same world class processes we
use to manage cost when they are rising are now critical to realizing maximum savings on materials
and services in a softening market. Combined with capital discipline, our attention to every element
of our cost structure will ensure our success during this economic slowdown.
Rewarding our shareholders, continuing our disciplined growth and maintaining our financial
strength are all objectives we have been pursuing and will continue to pursue in 2009. Meeting our
commitments to our investors, our communities, and a world that has a long-term need for our
products and services has been and will continue to be our priority. I look forward to discussing the
challenges and opportunities of 2009 and the years ahead at our meeting on March 10 in New York
City.
That concludes our prepared remarks. We’ll now take your questions.
So that everyone has an opportunity to participate, please try to limit your follow-up questions to
one or two.

So Matt, please open the lines for questions.

Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mark Flannery from
Credit Suisse. Your question, please.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Thank you. Yes. My question is on the reserve replacements, and I know
you have only preliminary numbers and you’ll give us more details in March, but can you give us an
early feel for how much the net pricing impact was on the end-year reserve replacement, and
whether it was net positive, net negative, roughly how big?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well Mark, thank you. We’ve got -- we’ve had a great success with our
reserves replacement this year in a number of areas. Some of the projects that we started up,
where we had conservatively booked reserves, we were able to revise upwards, because we’ve
now demonstrated, through production, more confidence and in the -- in the reservoirs. We’ve also
had some additions from contract extensions such as the PNZ, and those will be disclosed in
somewhat more detail when we get to our March meeting.
We did benefit obviously from price, and my recollection is that we’re in the 80 – the organic
replacement for one year was above 80%, or around 80%. The balance comes from price. So,
we’ve gained back in price some of what we – a lot of what we lost over the last few years, as the
numbers went to the other direction, as price went upwards and reduced those reserves. So now
that I look over the last 10 years, it’s very gratifying to see that we are at greater than 100% reserve
replacement over that long spread of time. So I feel good about where we are, and we’ll be
covering that in more detail obviously in March. And you’ll see a lot more disclosure in the 10-K as
well. But thank you for the question.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Great, thank you.
Operator: Our next question is from Robert Kessler from Simmons & Company. Your question,
please.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Good morning, and Pat, welcome to your new role. My question relates to
your production guidance for 2009. Looking at the new implied base business decline rate of 7%
and comparing that to your recent experience of 3 to 4%, I recognize you said there was a gap
associated with lower spending. And if I look at your CapEx plan, that looks like, excluding the onetime payments, it would have been down about $2.8 billion. Is that the order of magnitude
spending that you estimate would be required to flatten out or mitigate that decline rate down to the
4% figure you typically experience? And why, given – I would assume you would expect resilience
in your portfolio down to $50 a barrel at least. Why would you not go ahead and spend that amount
in a deflationary oil field service environment?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay, a lot of questions there, but let me – generally your observations are
on the right track. But let me give you the -- a reason why, I think the primary reason why, and
maybe even an example of why we think it’s unwise to chase after barrels in this environment.
We have – we’re clearly pursuing our long term strategic projects that require continued investment
over the long term, and I cited a number of examples of those. But let me talk about a very specific
example where we have consciously slowed down, and that’s in the Piceance. And there are two
reasons for it. One is, Colorado has instituted some pretty onerous environmental regulations that
have made it a lot more difficult to get permits in a timely manner. So we reduced our – we were
planning -- we were in the process of reducing our plans, there just from an environmental
permitting standpoint. Also the pricing outlook is looking a little tenuous in that area, so we’ve
slowed it down.
In the meantime, we expect -- we do expect costs to come down in the goods and services and
supplies and oil field services area, and as those costs come down, we’ll obviously have a chance
to reevaluate our portfolio and make decisions to add more investment if we think it’s appropriate.
But in this environment, we think we’re doing the right thing to back off the -- particularly the
opportunities that we can come back to later, because they’re in this case on fee land, and we’re
conscious here of the capital discipline that we need to exercise in order to make the right value
decision.
So there are a number of those decisions that we’ve taken. We think they’re the right thing to do in
this market, and we expect, as prices -- as costs come down, that we’ll be – and permitting
requirements are met, that we’ll be able to reevaluate our position in the future, but I think in current
circumstances, this is the right thing to do.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Thank you for the color.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next questions from Erik Mielke from Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.

<Q – Erik Mielke>: Yeah, good morning. I’d also like to congratulate Pat on her new role, and
welcome to the quarterly conference circus.
I’d like to ask a question on the production outlook as well. Given the experience you’ve had in
2008, are you being more conservative in your guidance in 2009, particularly with respect to the
ramp-up from the major capital projects, and on execution? And is there anything on the external
factors that you can help us understand that number a little bit better? Is that 60,000 barrels per
day based on the current run rate, or is there projected further cut by OPEC?
<A – David O’Reilly>: The -- well I think we are taking a -- I think a realistic view as best we can of
what is happening in the marketplace, with OPEC and some market impacts. We showed an
80,000 barrels per day negative on what we call external factors, and basically we -- that’s roughly
the way we see it. About half of that is market effects, half of it’s OPEC, with the OPEC impacts
being primarily in Venezuela and some in Angola and a little bit in Nigeria.
The balance is market effects in gas in Asia. We saw a deterioration in the gas demand situation in
Thailand, for example, late in the year, and we just think that it’s not wise for us to count on those
markets bouncing back very quickly. They’re still good for the long term, but in the near term, in
‘09, I think what we’ve done is given you the most realistic assessment that we can of what we call
external factors. It’s very hard to predict this with accuracy, so that’s our best shot at it, as we see it
today.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Okay, thanks. Can I ask you a follow-up?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Sure.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Just on foreign exchange. There was quite a bit a noise in the quarter from
foreign exchange. Are there any sort of handy rules of thumb that you can give us that we can use
to maybe try to predict some of the overall exposure for the group?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Erik, I’m afraid that’s a very, very difficult challenge for us. Obviously, you
see different factors come into play depending on the timing of our acquisition of goods and
services, depending on the net monetary asset and liability positions in different parts of the
company. In general, what we saw overall was the benefit in the fourth quarter of the strengthening
dollar, but obviously it hit different segments in different ways.
I wish I could provide better guidance than that, but because of, again, the mix of components that
goes into that, both what we buy, what we sell, as well as the assets and liabilities in our different
international businesses, it’s very, very difficult to give anything other than guidance that suggests a
strengthening or weakening dollar would help or hurt our foreign exchange gains.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Okay, fair enough. And finally, was there any significant under- or over-lift in
the international upstream in the fourth quarter?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: The fourth quarter we had an under-lift relative to our production of about 5%.
For the year as a whole, we were essentially in balance.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Thanks very much.
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Sure.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re welcome.
Operator: The next question is from Michael LaMotte of JPMorgan. Your question, please.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Thank you, good morning. A question for Dave. The Ministry of
Petroleum in Iraq seems pretty committed to moving forward with MSCs and awards in June of ‘09.
I was wondering if you could give us your thoughts on what that might mean for Chevron this year?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I’ve just actually been in the Middle East this past month and there is
certainly motivation on their part to move to some agreements, I think in this year. So there’s been
a pick up of the pace. It’s very hard to predict. Despite the, I think, good intentions by the
government there to move prospects forward, there are limitations in the capacity of the Ministry’s
that -- just to handle the volume of activity. So this could be a year in which the -- some of the
opportunities will get firmed up, but I don’t know how to predict it, really. It’s -- I’d hate to go on
record and say, “Yeah, something will happen this year.” But we’re clearly interested, as many
others are, and we’re clearly buying the appropriate packages and ready to move forward and
make the appropriate proposals as the opportunities arise.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Thank you for that. I understand it is difficult to predict, but just the fact
that you’re staying close to it is really I guess what I was interested in getting to.
<A – David O’Reilly>: We are staying close to it, I can assure you that.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Very good. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question is from Neil McMahon from Sanford Bernstein. Your question, please.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi. Just a few of them, sort of follows one from the other. I just have a
question on projects. Can you give us any update on Jack and St. Malo in the current challenging
times? Just wondering if you’re doing the sensible thing and renegotiating any potential
engineering contracts that you’ve awarded on those projects -- or in terms of feed and also rig
contracts? And also an update on where you are with the Reliance Petroleum option for
Jamnagar?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay. Let me start with the Jack-St. Malo and the lower tertiary in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This is a very, very important trend and one that we’re really focused
on. We had a lot of success in the leasing rounds that just happened this year in the Gulf of Mexico
and we have a fine portfolio I think of prospects in that trend. We’re continuing to move forward
with Jack and St. Malo, and we’re just now at the very early end of the front-end engineering work,
so this is an ideal time, we think, to move into the – be moving into the market as the costs of
goods and services are coming down.
This is a great opportunity for us, and we’ll certainly talk more about it in depth at the March Analyst
Meeting. But let me assure you, this is one of our top priorities for the long term and one that’s
getting a lot of our attention, and we think it’s a good time for us to be starting to move into the
market on these opportunities.
On Reliance, we are discussing with Reliance the opportunity there at the Jamnagar refinery.
These are sensitive commercial discussions and I’d prefer not to comment on them at the present
time, but this is the year in which the situation there will clearly become clarified, as we’ve been
predicting for some time. Thanks.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Just a quick follow-up on -<A – David O’Reilly>: Yes.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: --on Jack and St. Malo’s [inaudible] Given the fact that you’re entering this
in as it seems a very logical, sensible manner, are we to presume then we’re sort of talking middle
of the decade before we see any significant production coming on from those lower tertiary
developments?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, it’ll be in the next decade since we’re almost there. I don’t know – I
would hope that we would have production before the middle of the decade at this point. This year
though will be clearly one of a lot of engineering work, and I think we’ve come very close to
selecting the optimum development plan, the conceptual development plan. So I would hope that
by the middle of the decade we would have good production there, but I think we’ll try to -- we’ll try
to predict that a little better for you in March when we see you all.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Great, thanks.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question is from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs. Your question, please.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Thank you. Perhaps it’s a little bit of a follow-up to the question on the base
declines and the decision to spend less there, and I appreciate part of it’s the environmental regs,
but also service costs are still high and the oil price has come down. You still have otherwise
though a very robust capital program, and it seems like costs have been inflated in industry across
the board. Perhaps some of those major development projects you can’t stop at this point, because
you’re already in the middle of them. But if there’s perhaps some cost concerns in going through
with the base business, wouldn’t that also be true with the growth projects that you’re not really
slowing those down? Just trying to reconcile those two things.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, thanks Arjun. Let me comment on that. We sanctioned actually very
few projects in 2007 and 2008. Many of the projects that are -- that came onstream in 2008 and
are coming on in 2009 were sanctioned and most of the expenditures and commitments to spend
were made in the 2003-’04-’05 period. So we are – while yes, there are some -- there’s clearly
been some cost escalations, we – none of these projects were launched and made major
commitments to at the peak of cost.
So we are in fact I think in a very good position, because the next projects that we sanction in our
queue will be going out for request for proposal in ‘09 and in 2010, and this we think is a good
window for that, because costs are clearly softening, there’s a little bit of a lag. But on the other
hand, we’ve seen costs come down quite a bit faster than they have in the past, which tells you that
I think we could be hitting the sweet spot here for some of these projects.
Hard to predict, but clearly that’s going to be part of our thinking. And we believe that these major
projects that are good for our long term will be cost competitive in this environment. Now obviously,
if we’re wrong about that, we have the flexibility to go back to investing more in the base business if
those costs justify it. But we think we’re making the right balanced decision here, and given the
slack in the market, I think it’s good timing.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Dave, that’s actually a really helpful comment and I appreciate that. Does that
suggest that the ‘09 budget, then -- or let me try it another way. I guess, are you confident that
you’ll be able to sanction these, and that the negotiations in this sort of very uncertain environment
can get done, to then be able to sanction them and move forward? Or is the ‘09 budget then
perhaps, I don’t want to use the word “overstated,” but a higher-than-likely level of spending, and as
you get through these negotiations and sanction the projects, it’s more the ‘10 and ‘11 CapEx that’ll
be more robust?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well -<Q – Arjun Murti>: Because it is still a very high level of CapEx. I don’t have an issue with it. But
just trying to -- I hear you, but we are still spending a decent amount in ‘09.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well yes, if and -- look, the if -- clearly there -- if we can’t justify a, and don’t
feel comfortable with the cost relative to the outlook for the business, we would wait, I think --
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Yeah.
<A – David O’Reilly>: -- is the best way of putting it. We have some flexibility on some of these
major projects, but I think the reality that we see in the marketplace right now is we think it is a good
time to be going back in the market. So we’re – and if we’re wrong, well then, obviously these
numbers are too high and we’ll back off. But I think we’re seeing signs that this market is changing
more rapidly than it has in the past. I think the suppliers of goods and services to our industry
realize that they’re in a different environment as well. They want to – the ones that are in it for the
long term clearly want our business, and they’ll be modifying their pricing appropriately. So, I think
some of that’s going to occur.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Welcome, Arjun. Thanks.
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital. Your question, please?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. Good morning, guys.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Morning.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Dave, when you’re talking about the cost reduction that you’re expecting, how
receptive so far with your negotiation with your vendor, I mean are they receptive, that recognize
that that’s change and is coming down? And how quickly that you think the lower cost may start to
flow through into your result and benefiting you guys?
And from that aspect, that when you’re talking about a lower tertiary, I’m wondering if you can –
talking about the Gorgon. I think previously George was thinking about sanctioning it potentially in
the second half 2009, and if the market condition may have changed, that the expectation at this
point?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well – let me just kind of -- I think I’ve commented on the lower tertiary
already, but let me just talk about Australia and Gorgon for a moment. We are on track we believe
to sanctioning that project late in the year. Again, we think this is good timing. We’re currently in
the market with RFPs. The Australian dollar has weakened significantly. There’s a lot of capacity
now in the labor force in Australia, as many of the resource industries have deferred activity in
mining and other activities. So there’s a lot of interest in this project, and I think this is again a good
time for us to be out in the market beginning to assess and call for prices for equipment and for
services and construction. So how it’ll turn out will remain to be seen, but we’re very -- we’re bullish
on Gorgon and believe that’s one that we hope we’ll be able to tie up and create something long
term for the company sometime late in the year.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Can I have a follow-up -<A – David O’Reilly>: Sure.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Dave? In the last three years, rightfully, after your Unocal acquisition, the
company has been focusing on the organic projects and not really looked that much on the M&A
market. I’m wondering if the view have changed, that given now the market condition have
changed and asset price has defrayed, and some time people will say that you want to be a
countercyclical buyer. Wanted to -- nothing of specific, just want to see what is the management
view about that subject?

<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, two answers to that question. First of all, we clearly have a great
organic queue of projects here that we are continuing to pursue and invest in, and we believe that
certainly compared to our size, we have – we’re among the best in the industry in that area, and
that we’re fueling that in the background with continued success in our exploration program.
Look, we’re not blind to what’s going on in the world around us, and we make assessments of the
opportunities, but those are hard to predict and I’d prefer not to comment on them, but clearly we’re
not blind to looking for other opportunities as well. But our priority in 2009 I think is going to be on
advancing these projects and bringing them to market, as well as starting up the ones that are in
the commissioning phase that Jim referred to in his remarks a few minutes ago.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question’s from Jason Gammel from Macquarie [Macquarie Research
Equities]. Your question, please.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Thank you. I would like to add my congratulations to Pat as well on your
new role. Dave, you had a lot of specific questions today relative to some of the projects that you
have captured, and I think you just marked your ninth anniversary as CEO. Something I’d just ask a
little broader question. How would you assess the state of your investment opportunities now
relative to where it’s been over the course of your tenure?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well thanks, Jason. I think the depth and quality of our queue of
opportunities is stronger than anytime it’s been in that nine years. There are -- and I say that, not
just based on the projects that we’ve been talking about very specifically and that we’ve had a
number of questions on this morning, but also the success we’re continuing to have with our
exploration program, that tells me that that’s going to lead to future developments in the next
decade that will be value creating for the company for the long term. So, I see us in a very, very
strong position, and I feel very good about the opportunities that we have in the years ahead.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: That’s appreciated. Maybe as a follow-up, I can ask another open-ended
one? What do you see as the two or three biggest challenges facing the company over the next two
to three years?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well clearly, managing through this uncertain period, which is something
we’ve done before a number of times and -- as a company and as an industry. We are clearly in a
more challenging environment, with lower demand. It’s been about 20 -- I think we have to go back
to the early ‘80s to see two years of back-to-back oil demand decline in the – yeah, I think that’s
right, you have to go back to the early ‘80s. So we had a modest decline globally last year, it’s
projected there will be another one this year.
So managing our costs and staying focused on the long term I think is clearly our objective here,
and we’re in a good position to do it, because of our strong balance sheet and because we
delevered during the good times, so that we have that flexibility during the tougher times.
The second item I think is the whole issue of carbon management over the next five years or so, as
the world tries to struggle with how to value carbon and how that affects the business.
So I see those as two challenges over the next couple years, one we’ve been through before a
number of times, and we’re kind of -- we’re used to it, this cyclical activity. But I think we’re moving
into an area where we’ll be dealing with this new issue, and I don’t mean “new” in the European
sense, where we’re already managing it quite well, but I mean on a global sense, as more and
more people -- or countries sign up for carbon management, and the impacts on the business will
clearly be there, and how we manage in that environment I think is going to be – the people who
manage successfully in that environment will do better than those that don’t.

<Q – Jason Gammel>: I appreciate that context. Thanks, Dave.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re welcome. Thank you, Jason.
Operator: Our next question is from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank. Your question, please?
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hello, everyone. I just would like to carry on a little bit on the CapEx question
if I could, further really to what Arjun was asking. I understood that you had quite a significant
ForEx benefit from a stronger dollar, perhaps as much as a 10 to 20% implied benefit, given that a
lot of your spending obviously is abroad, which again would have led me to think that perhaps your
CapEx number would come down. You’ve also, as we’ve -- as you’ve covered, said you stepped
back in the U.S. -- somewhat in the U.S. spending. Could you just help me rationalize that particular
part of the balance? Thanks.
<A – David O’Reilly>: I don’t think we saw a significant benefit in CapEx on the strengthening
dollar in ‘08. A lot of that dollar strengthening occurred very, very late in the year, and it’s very – so
basically, these numbers reflect – the ‘08 number certainly will reflect an average here. As Jim
said, it’s very hard to predict this. We’re in uncharted waters. The dollar has been a safe haven at
the moment, and some other currencies have declined, but if -- clearly, some of these numbers
could change, if there were more dramatic changes in the relative valuations of currencies. But I
just don’t think I feel comfortable about trying to predict 2009, but I do feel comfortable telling you
that 2008 did not see significant benefit.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: No, I was really -- David, I was really thinking about 2009 relative to 2008,
and that all things equal, with the move that we had in foreign currencies, we would have thought
your CapEx would step down, especially when you then add on a somewhat lower level of
spending in the U.S.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, there is perhaps a little bit of a stepdown in a few areas, but remember
that when you look at the budget here, about 10% of that budget is for one-time payments, for
concession extensions. So the budget has come down by about 10%, and part of that is built into
that 10%, our current assessment of that. But that’s again – it’s a prediction, and nobody really
truly knows how the relative exchange rates are going to turn out. It’s a fool’s game to try to
overguess it.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Great, thanks. And then, if I could just briefly, on the buyback, I believe you
said that you’ve -- you will not be buying back shares in Q1. Could you talk a little bit about that
decision relative to obviously what we said about CapEx and what we said perhaps about M&A as
well? Thanks.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I’m going to turn it over to Pat to talk about our financial priorities.
She’s been sitting here patiently, and you’ve all been congratulating her, but I’m going to let her –
she needs to chime in here on this subject, as the keeper of the balance sheet. So, Pat?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. Well thanks, Dave. I was feeling like I was turning into a potted
plant here for a moment, but thanks for the question. Our financial priorities really are, from a cash
standpoint, sustaining and growing the dividend; then funding the capital program that we have,
where we’ve got projects that earn good returns over a viable vast range of commodity prices; and
then maintaining our financial strength and flexibility. So we’ve always seen the share repurchase
program as sort of the discretionary part of that, and we’re just indicating, certainly for the first
quarter of 2009, that we’re not going to have a continuation of that repurchase program.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: I guess you’d expect debt to rise, even so, in Q1?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I think that that’s a reasonable expectation. We did, as Dave said, we
delevered when the times were right, giving us that flexibility now, when revenue stream has come
down and our cost structure obviously is adjusting, but perhaps not quite as rapidly. So I think you
could expect to see a modest increase in the debt balance in the first quarter. We’re very well
positioned, though, to even at low sustained prices, to have a very strong balance sheet.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay, Pat, well I didn’t congratulate you, so I will. Congratulations, and
thanks.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well thank you -- thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thanks for the questions, Paul.
Operator: Our next question is Mike Maestas from Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Hello, Mike?
<Q>: I’m sorry, it’s been answered. Thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay. You’re welcome.
Operator: Our next question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark. Your question, please.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Folks, good morning. I had a couple things, if I could please. Was there any
change in the fiscal terms that was agreed upon, associated with the extension of the concession
the PNZ, Dave?
<A – David O’Reilly>: The fundamental terms are the same, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. And the production outlook for 2009 and the price effect therein, are
there any thresholds that are included in that, under the $50 a barrel assumption?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, the $50 a barrel we take from the strip price. We did hit some
thresholds when the prices were high, back in -- you’re talking about production-sharing
thresholds?
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Yeah, cost per cumulative, capital cost recovery -<A – David O’Reilly>: Yeah.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: -- or rate of return, or cumulative production. Any of the things that went into
Jim’s comments regarding the change in the sensitivity.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Yeah, Jim, why don’t you deal with that one for me, please?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Mark, the changes that we saw in 2008, and we did hit some thresholds in
2008, were why we had the higher number, a higher volume impact per dollar per barrel of change
in price in crude. Looking ahead to 2009, since we’ve already crossed those thresholds, we see a
lower volume impact per dollar change in crude prices.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Yeah, Jim, but what I’m asking is, is – are any threshold impacts built into the
60,000 a day price effect as part of your 2009 forecast?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Not many. Most of them are behind us, which is why the number has come
down.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Okay. Dave, can I infer, from your Jack-St. Malo comment, that the
appraisal wells that had been or have been drilling were successful?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I think we’re going to report on the appraisal I think in March. But I
think you can infer that we’re on the right track, and we’ll give you a lot more detail in March.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Just one final clarification. Dave, regarding the 80% organic reserve
replacement in ‘08, does that include the reserves associated with the concession extension at
PNZ?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Yes.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Thanks much, folks.
<A – David O’Reilly>: And you’ll see more detail on the K.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re welcome.
Operator: Our next question is from Erik Mielke from Merrill Lynch. Your question.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Yeah, I’m sorry for asking another question. I just thought I’d ask for an update
on Chuandongbei, given you’ve been running through the other key projects. You -- in your CapEx
statement, you said you have an initial payment, so --or the bonus payment, and also some initial
development. If you can give us some guidance on where you expect to take that in 2009?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well yes, thanks, Erik. We are progressing with the construction work in
Chuandongbei, so it’s actively moving forward. And yeah, that is included in our – the appropriate
capital is included in our program. We view that as another long-term project that will benefit the
company for many years to come – decades to come. So yes, that one’s on track compared to
what we’ve told you basically the last year, and again, we’ll be updating you in the March meeting,
but thank you for the question.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: But was it part of your reserve bookings for ‘08?
<A – David O’Reilly>: I – you’ll see the details in the K.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Okay.
<A – David O’Reilly>: I can’t answer that right now, but you’ll see the details on the K.
<Q – Erik Mielke>: Thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thanks.
Operator: Our final question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark. Your question, please.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Guys, the exploration spend component, the 2009 capital budget versus
2008. Give me an idea what it is?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: It’s about flat between 2009 and 2008.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Level, Jim?
<A – Jim Aleveras>: Pretty much so, yes, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: I mean the dollar amount?
<A – David O’Reilly>: A little bit more appraisal, I think, in -- balanced between appraisal versus
pure exploration, but we’re going to go through a very detailed review of our exploration program
and our plans for ‘09 very specifically in our – in the Analyst Meeting.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Thanks, folks.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re very welcome. I think it was time to wind it up, Matt, unless there are
other questions?
Operator: At this time, I show no further questions.

David J. O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good. Well thank you very much for listening. We appreciate everyone’s participation on the call. I
want to thank you for your questions this morning, and look forward to seeing you all, or many of
you, in March in New York. So Matt, thank you.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings
Conference Call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Good day.