Operator: Good morning. My name is Shawn and I will be you conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants
are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker’s remarks, there will be a question and answer session
and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call
is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Shawn. Welcome to Chevron’s second quarter earnings call and webcast. On the call with
me today are George Kirkland, Executive Vice President, Global Upstream and Gas and Jim
Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and
operating results for the second quarter of 2009 and we’ll refer to the slides that are available on
Chevron’s website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and
other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.
Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s second quarter
earnings were 1.7 billion or $0.87 per diluted share. Our second quarter 2009 earnings were down
71% from the second quarter 2008. Second quarter 2009 earnings fell 5%, compared to the first
quarter of 2009, which Jim will discuss shortly.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 17%. The debt ratio was 12% at the end
of the quarter. While debt balances were relatively flat during the second quarter, cash balances
ended the period approximately 2 billion lower than the prior quarter. The cash change reflects
working capital effects unique to the second quarter. For example, nearly half of the cash
consumption in the second quarter pertains to a full year 2008 foreign tax obligation that was
accrued last year but was paid in May 2009. The amount is particularly distorted because it’s based
on the much higher earnings level of last year. And finally, as we announced on Wednesday,
Chevron’s Board of Directors approved a $0.03 per share or 4.6% increase in the common stock
dividend payable on September 10, 2009.
Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparison. Jim?

James Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Pat. My remarks compare results of the second quarter 2009 with the first quarter 2009. As
a reminder, our earnings release compared second quarter 2009 with the same quarter a year ago.
Turning to slide four, second quarter earnings were down $92 million from the first quarter. Starting
with the left side of the chart, higher crude oil realizations increased the company’s worldwide
upstream earnings. However, upstream results were adversely affected by a foreign currency
variance of about $500 million between quarters.
Second quarter downstream results were sharply lower than the first quarter. This decline reflects
lower margins in the second quarter along with lower gains on asset sales. The second quarter
included a $140 million benefit from asset sales, compared to the $400 million gain recorded in the
first quarter. The Other bar largely reflects improved chemical earnings and a favorable swing in
corporate tax items.

On slide five, our U.S. upstream results for the second quarter were about $250 million higher than
the first quarter’s results. Combined crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by
$310 million.
Chevron’s average U.S. crude oil realizations increased about $16.35 per barrel between
consecutive quarters, almost the same change as average spot prices of West Texas Intermediate.
Natural gas realizations, however, fell between consecutive quarters, offsetting about $75 million of
the benefit of higher crude oil prices.
Production volumes increased more than 4% between quarters. The startup of Tahiti, the ramp up
of Blind Faith and continued hurricane restoration efforts in the Gulf of Mexico more than overcame
natural field decline. The Other bar includes the benefit of lower operating expenses, but these
were more than offset by impairments in several small fields, which flow through DD&A, and some
other items.

Slide six summarizes the results for our international upstream operations, which were essentially
unchanged between quarters. On a combined basis, liquids and natural gas realizations improved
earnings by $625 million. Our unit realizations for liquids improved by 35%, compared with a 33%
increase in Brent Spot prices. Natural gas realizations, however, were lower in the second quarter,
offsetting about $100 million of the benefit of higher liquids realizations. Exploration expense
increased $90 million between quarters reflecting well write-offs spread among a number of
countries. The FX and Other bar shown largely reflects a swing of more than $500 million in foreign
currency effects between quarters.
Slide seven summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes
produced from oil sands in Canada. Production increased slightly between quarters. Higher prices
reduced volumes under production sharing contracts and variable royalty provisions by 24,000
barrels per day. Based on the $16.50 change in average West Texas Intermediate prices between
the first and second quarters, this translates into a roughly 1,500 barrel per day impact, compared
to the rule of thumb we provided six months ago of 1,200 barrels per day for each dollar of WTI
price change.
In the interim, we have looked at all of our production sharing agreements and variable royalties
and this study reemphasizes our earlier caveats, that the effects are non-linear and any rule of
thumb is very rough. Given the volatility in crude prices, no single rule of thumb is appropriate as
forward guidance; therefore, we’ll continue to quantify our price and volume effects for you each
quarter.
Moving on to the next bar on slide seven. The decline of 44,000 barrels per day is shown under the
caption “Base Business and External Constraints” includes a number of items. First, the total base
business decline was 58,000 barrels per day, but over 40,000 barrels per day of this amount was
due to planned turnaround activity in Kazakhstan, Canada and other countries. The same bar also
reflects a 20,000 barrel per day benefit of hurricane restoration, partly offset by a 14,000 barrel per
day change in Nigerian production due to local disruptions. External constrains, such as OpEx
member host government limitations and Asian gas market factors were slightly less limiting than in
the first quarter. This change was minimal, about 8000 barrels per day.
As shown in the next bar, increased production from our new major capital projects benefited
second quarter production by 75,000 barrels per day, primarily reflecting Agbami, Tahiti and Blind
Faith. George Kirkland will provide a more detailed discussion of our major projects in production in
a few minutes.
Turning to slide eight, U.S. downstream earnings declined about $230 million in the second quarter.
The overall impact of refining and marketing indicator margins was an adverse $75 million. The
adverse change in our total margins between quarters was $130 million, in addition to the 75 million
amount reflected by the indicator margins. The major factor was refining mix effects due to a
decrease in distillate refining margins, a decrease in light-heavy crude spreads and other factors,
such as higher refinery feedstock costs. As these impacts were not fully captured by the indicator
margins, our realized refining margins were more unfavorable than suggested by the indicators.
Additionally, lubricant base oil margins were lower due to weakness in the industrial and
commercial transportation markets.
Higher sales volumes increased second quarter earnings by $75 million. This improvement is about
the same amount as the adverse variance we showed in the prior quarter. We completed the
planned turnaround maintenance at our El Segundo, California refinery that I mentioned last
quarter, and this accounts for the difference.

The other bar reflects timing effects and a number of minor variances, including higher fuel costs
due to higher prices. Timing effects represent about half of this variance between periods. WTI
prices rose about $20 per barrel from the beginning to the end of the second quarter, compared to
a $5 per barrel increase during the first quarter. The changes we’ve discussed before, including
phasing out provisional pricing for our major supply contracts, have reduced the volatility of our
U.S. downstream earnings and changes in commodity prices. However, we will continue to
experience timing effects related to market factors, such as lag pricing terms for aviation fuel along
with inventory and supply effects.
Turning to slide nine, our international downstream earnings fell about $435 million from the first
quarter’s results. On balance, refining and marketing margins reduced earnings by $55 million
between quarters. Both refining and marketing margins were lower in Asia, our largest international
region. Timing effects represent a $90 million adverse variance between quarters. On an absolute
basis, timing effects reduced first quarter earnings by about $140 million, while the second quarter
effect was about $230 million. The largest single component of the $90 million quarterly change
was a $60 million impact of lagged aviation pricing terms.
During the second quarter, we closed the previously announced sales of our fuels marketing
operations in Cameroon and Kenya. However, the gain of $140 million was $260 million less than
the amount recognized in the first quarter for the sale of marketing businesses in Nigeria and Brazil.
Various items, including lower trading profits partly offset by lower foreign currency losses, made up
the majority of the $29 million variance shown in the Other bar. Operating expense, which dropped
substantially in the first quarter, inched up slightly in the second quarter partly on higher fuel costs.
Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $108 million in the second quarter,
compared with $39 million in the first quarter. Results for olefins, aromatics, and oronite additives
all reflected higher margins. Olefins and oronite additives also benefited from higher volume.
Slide 11 covers all Other. Second quarter net charges were $43 million, compared to 294 million in
the first quarter. All other charges were below our typical guidance range of 250 to $350 million.
This reflects favorable corporate tax items, the swing from foreign currency losses to gains and
lower corporate and service company net charges.
Before turning the call over to George Kirkland, I’d just like to briefly recap the second quarter. First,
upstream earnings benefited from higher crude oil prices but these were largely offset by
substantial adverse foreign currency effects in line with the interim update. Downstream results
reflected weak margins, adverse timing effects due to the increase in commodity prices and lower
asset sales gains, also mentioned in the interim update. As we projected, all other net charges
were below the guidance range.

Finally, and most importantly, our operational results were strong from upstream production to
refinery utilization. George Kirkland is now going to provide an update on our production outlook for
2009 and further discuss our upstream projects. George?

George L. Kirkland, Executive Vice President, Global Upstream and Gas
Thank you, Jim. It’s good to be back to discuss upstream performance and our outlook for the
remainder of the year. I’m very pleased with our progress through the first half of 2009, particularly
in the areas of project execution, production, and cost management. And I am going to address
each of these areas.
Let’s now move to slide 13. Production performance from our major capital projects in the first half
of this year has been strong. 2009 production growth from these projects will likely exceed the
300,000 barrel a day forecast we provided at the fourth quarter earnings call and shows both the
strength of our major capital project queue and our ability to execute.
The bulk of the production increases come from four major capital projects. Tahiti achieved first oil
on May 5th and reached peak production within three months; that was six months ahead of
schedule. Current production is at full capacity of 135,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. The
ramp up of Agbami has reached 220,000 barrels of oil a day and is ahead of our schedule to reach
peak production of 250,000 barrels of oil per day. SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan is performing above the
Name Plate capacity of 240,000 barrels a day.

Debottlenecking activities are currently underway that should allow for higher oil production by
year-end. And finally, Blind Faith reached peak production of 70,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in late March.
Due to the performance of these major capital projects, combined with lower OPEC and market
constraints and lower base business declines, which averaged about 6%, we now expect the full
year outlook for 2009 to be about 2.66 million barrels a day, an increase of 30,000 barrels a day
from our previous guidance. This translates to a 5% increase over 2008 levels of 2.53 million
barrels a day and includes both the impact of security related disruptions in Nigeria that have
caused – excuse me, includes both the security related disruptions in Nigeria that have caused
significant shut-ins. This revised outlook is based on an average oil price of $50 per barrel and of
course, changes in price will impact this outlook.
Other progress to be noted in the first half of 2009 is as follows. Frade achieved first oil on June 20;
this is Chevron’s first operated asset in Brazil. We expect Frade to reach peak production of 90,000
barrels a day in 2001 as additional development wells are drilled and Mafumeira Norte and Angola
Block 0 achieved first oil in July, once again ahead of schedule. Production is currently ramping up
and forecasted to reach a peak production of 35,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2011, as
additional development wells come on-line.
Turing now to slide 14, I would like to discuss some of the other significant achievements that
occurred during the first half of 2009. Yesterday we announced that the Wheatstone LNG Project in
Australia entered FEED as a two-train development. This significant milestone demonstrates our
progress towards sanction. It follows the announcement in February of a successful seven well
exploration and appraisal program that underpins the two-train development. Also in Australia we
received a conditional recommendation from the Western Australian Environmental Protection
Authority on the expanded Gorgon project. This is excellent news and we are on schedule to
sanction the project later this year.
In Nigeria we remain on schedule to sanction Stage 2 of the Agbami field. Stage 2 development
wells will extend the peak production plateau of 250,000 barrels of oil a day. In the Partitioned
Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Steam Injection at the large-scale steam flood pilot
began in late June. With pilot success, a full field development of the Wafra Eocene Reservoir will
follow. This field contains over 12 billion barrels of oil in place and would be the first commercial
application of a conventional steam flood in a carbonate reservoir.
In Angola, we now forecast Tombua-Landana startup during the third quarter of 2009. Hookup and
commissioning is about 90% complete. It is expected that three wells will be available at first oil.
Tombua-Landana is projected to reach 100,000 barrels a day by 2011 with development drilling.
And finally, in Indonesia the startup of the non-operated South Natuna Sea North Belut Field
remains on schedule for the third quarter of 2009.
Let’s now take a look at slide 15. I’d like to talk about our upstream cost structure, which includes
production expense, DD&A, and other expenses. This chart shows the competitiveness of our cost
structure and has been updated since our Security Analyst Meeting in March.

For 2008, we had industry leading upstream costs of $20.05 per barrel. During the first half of 2009,
this has improved to 19.87 a barrel. Lower production expenses and higher DD&A charges almost
offset each other. On a unit of production basis, DD&A charges increased by 2.22 per barrel during
the first half of 2009, compared to full year 2008. This was principally driven by the investments
associated with new project startups at Agbami, Blind Faith, Tahiti, and Moho-Bilondo. Although the
DD&A associated with these new project startups is high, this is to be expected and is a function of
how proved developed reserves are booked over time.
Let me offer an example; take a deepwater project like Blind Faith. DD&A rates at startup are
calculated based on the project investment but only a small portion of the resources booked as
proved reserves under SEC guidelines. However, as additional proved reserves are booked and
the capital depreciated, the associated DD&A rate will significantly drop over subsequent years.
Early in the project’s life, earnings maybe impacted due to the higher DD&A, but cash margins are
generally at their highest levels. And remember, we base our investment decisions on cash flow.
Now let’s turn to production expense because DD&A is only part of the story. In the upstream
through the first half of 2009, production expenses were $2.52 per barrel, less than full year 2008.
This is a function of lower operating expenses and taxes other than on income. This reduction has
more than offset the increase in DD&A. I’m pleased with our progress on managing our production
costs and this will remain a key focus for us. Pat will provide further insights on Chevron’s cost
management activities.
And with that I’d like to turn it over to Pat.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, George. Slide 16 provides a progress report on our aggressive company-wide efforts to
reduce cash cost of running the business. We’ve targeted a $2.5 billion reduction in operating,
selling, general and administrative expenses in 2009, compared to 2008. The target excludes the
benefit associated with lower cost of 22:35 purchase fuel.
All areas of the company are working to reduce costs. Upstream, downstream, corporate
departments and our internal service and technology organizations, and at mid-year we were
ahead of pace to meet the full year objectives.
Some key areas of focus in our push for cost reduction are listed on the slide, materials and
supplies, transportation expenses and contract labor and third party services. Our recent
downstream asset sales, notably in Brazil and several West African countries, removed cost
relative to the prior periods and this was anticipated in our target. On the upstream side, particularly
in North America, we have reduced activity related to well workovers and are contracting fewer rigs
at lower rates. This makes good business sense given the economics of these activities, in
particular, in relation to natural gas prices. As a note of caution, please keep in mind that the
operating expenses will not be perfectly ratable throughout the year due to seasonal and other
effects, such as turnaround activities. Nevertheless, we are very pleased with our progress.
I’d like to wrap up our prepared remarks with a recap of Chevron’s operational performance through
the first half of the year. This is slide 17. As George discussed, our upstream production remains on
track for good year-over-year increase with our major capital projects performing on plan or better.
Our year-to-date refinery crude utilization remains a strong 93% of capacity. We’ve had no
significant unplanned shutdowns and the Solomon Island utilization rate for our operated refineries
is right at planned level. George described our upstream project execution, which is on track. And
Jim mentioned that our downstream portfolio upgrading continued last quarter and we expect
further progress on this initiative in the quarters ahead. As I just outlined, our cost management
efforts are progressing quite well.
And finally, we’re maintaining our strategic focus on the factors that will ensure growth and superior
returns to our stockholders in the years ahead. In addition to funding the long-term growth
components of our capital program, we’re continuing our strategic staffing initiatives to ensure that
we have the future technical expertise in Chevron to remain a top performer.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We’d now like to welcome your questions. Please try to limit
your follow-up questions so that everybody has an opportunity to participate. So, Shawn, please
open the lines now for questions. Thank you.
Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Sankey with
Deutsche Bank.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi, good morning, everyone.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: You mentioned the $500 million variance in the forex, which seems, correct
me if I’m wrong but it does seem to be somewhat bigger than your rivals. I think its effects were
direct, honestly was less – well less than 600 million obviously off a bigger base. Could you just
help us understand how much of that is, if you like, an accounting effect and how much is an
operational effect? Thanks.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yes. These, Paul, these are balance translations and it reflects where
we have – where we do our business and the relationship of the currencies from period to period.
So, a lot of this occurred in Australian dollars, Canadian dollar, the pound et cetera and we had
currency appreciations there, local currency appreciation versus the dollar between 8 and 16% in
the quarter.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay. So, essentially the entirety of it is a balance sheet item?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yes.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yes, it’s a book item.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: And conceptually if the dollar – I don’t want to be too negative here – but if the
dollar continued weakening forever, would you just continue to – is there a limit to how much this
can be or can it just keep going on forever?
<A – James Aleveras>: Paul, it would fluctuate based on our relationship between liabilities and
assets.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right.
<A – James Aleveras>: The – depending on whether they are a net liability position or a net asset
position we can see a larger or smaller or no effect from strengthening or weakening of the dollar.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay, I think <A – Patricia Yarrington>: Of your monetary assets.
<A – James Aleveras>: Monetary assets.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Monetary assets.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay, I’ve got the general idea so maybe we’ll follow up. If I could have an
upstream one as well, please. You had several different moving parts included in your base
business decline, could you, to make it simple, just strip what you think your base business decline
was for the quarter and then I have just a follow-up on upstream and I’ll leave it. Thanks.
<A – George Kirkland>: Paul, let me try to do it in this context, we try to give a view of where we
think base business is going to be for the year. Through the first half of the year it has been
significantly below our 7% guidance, it’s been more in the 5% range, 4 to 5% range, as best we can
track it. Once again you have to take a lot of ins and outs with turnarounds and everything else and
security and everything else going on. Our present forecast for the full year is we’re going to
average about 6%. Now, if you go back to our analyst meeting and the first quarter or the January
call we said at that point that we were basing our outlook for the year based on a 7% base business
decline and at this point we see that decline is going to be less than we had earlier forecasted by
1% at least.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: I understand and any idea for next year, George? Would that go faster again
or...?
<A – George Kirkland>: Paul, I really hate to talk about next year until we get our capital program
put in place <Q – Paul Sankey>: If it was the same capital program as this year?

<A – George Kirkland>: It would probably be more in line with the 7%, because we reduced our
base business capital significantly and that’s driven heavily in the United States around our
investments in the gas side of the business. Just to give you a little more color to that, I expect by
the end of the year we will not have a single gas land rig running. We’re redeploying our efforts to
where we can within our ability to move equipment around and contracts around to really focus on
oil. In the United States, gas prices, it doesn’t make sense for us right now to be drilling those gas
wells.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, and so the entirety of the incremental decline would be basically U.S.
gas?
<A – George Kirkland>: I think that’s a big – heavy – it’s going to be heavily US gas. We’ll be able
to tell you a lot more after we get through our business plans. So, first quarter call, or I guess
January call next year and analyst meeting, we’ll be able to give you lot more color on that.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Great. That’s very helpful, thank you.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay. Could we have the next caller please?
Operator: Sure. Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hey, guys.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Good morning. Well, first, let me – Jim, I want to say thank you for all the help
over the past couple years and wish you a happy retirement.
<A – James Aleveras>: Well, thank you very much, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: We will miss you. I think I have two question. One, Pat, in – you talked about
the cost saving is now ahead of pacing at mid-year. How much of the benefits so far you’ve seen is
related to FX or that and how much is really just coming from the vendor or raw material cost is
coming down?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Oh, good question, Paul. Really from an FX standpoint, it’s a factor but
it’s not a significant factor and I guess the second component you were asking about is sort of the
energy related drivers?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: And also, all the other raw material cost and everything.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well, it’s – clearly it’s a factor in there. We haven’t segregated it out on
a raw materials component factor uniquely or discretely. We have cost reductions. I think as I
mentioned on the call last time that depending upon the commodity or the product category, you
can get price reductions here, or cost reductions here that have ranged from 60%, the more
commoditized the service or equipment is, to 10% or 20% the less commoditized it is.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: And maybe I have missed it; Pat, have you said exact number that how much
you think that your cost saving is at this point?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We said – you mean on a year-to-date basis?
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Yes.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, we are down more than the 10%. We said we are ahead of
pace. The 10% is our target for the year; we said we are at more than 10%. We noted in the press
release on a quarter-to-quarter, second quarter this year to second quarter last year that on a
recurring basis we were down 15%. We did have some non-recurring items in the second quarter of
last year that we didn’t have in the second quarter of this year; they were not repeated. So, timing
effects like this can occur but they typically even out over the year. So, I just encourage you to look
at the 10% target and to know that so far we’re ahead of pace.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: So, so far you have 1.8, 1.9 million, 1.8, $1.9 billion, if you save 15%?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well, you’ll see it when we put out the 10 – well, you’ll see it when we
put out the 10Q.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay, okay.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And just know that there are some non-recurring elements in there.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Now, if I could have one quick upstream, George in Iraq, when you are
looking at the opportunities there and the risks associated and the kind of term that they offer in the
first round, if that maintain, is that really a pace that you guys will be very keen on to invest? Also
that if you look at the security situation on the ground, is it improved sufficiently that for you to feel
comfortable to put your people on the ground at this moment?
<A – George Kirkland>: Paul, I think you can tell that – or maybe not – we didn’t really submit a
bid on the first round in Iraq. We could not see a conforming bid at that point work for us on an
economic basis. We like Iraq when you think about the resource side, phenomenal resource. We
look at it, we’d like to be there but we need to have confidence both in the economic viability of the
investments and the security side. So, you got to look at both elements of that and we weren’t able
to see that in this first round. And in the way the first round has ended up really not – really the bid
did not prove to be that successful.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. In the first one you didn’t put a bid. Is it more of an economic concern or
was it a security concern from your guys’ standpoint?
<A – George Kirkland>: I would say at this point it was more an economic concern.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay, thank you.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay, thank you. The next caller, please.
Operator: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Yes, good afternoon, guys. Thank you for taking my call and also,
congratulations, Jim, on your retirement.
<A – James Aleveras>: Thanks, Evan.
<Q – Evan Calio>: I have just a quick question on Gorgon. I listened to your comments on the
conditional improvement. I mean, can you walk me through, walk us through exact details on the
path to FID for Gorgon?
<A – George Kirkland>: I’ll give you some of the color. There’s a whole lot of things that must
happen. First, most critical item is of course, getting our EPA approval. We need to get our
environmental permit to build Gorgon on Barrow Island, that’s critical step one. Of course, and
we’ve got to have all our partners between now and that period have their own internal approvals.
We need from the government all the leases ratified I guess I think would be the best word. So,
we’ve got to put in our development plans for production. They have to be approved.
But I think the most critical items is, one, the environmental permit, nothing can happen until we get
the environmental permit. And then second is of course, all the partners in Gorgon to give their
financial approval to move forward. Those are the two critical steps. There are a lot of other little
steps that go with it. We think we’re very, very close on the environmental permit and we’ve done
all our due diligence and all the project due diligence, I think, to be ready on the decision making
around the economics.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Excellent. Do you – another question on the upstream, are there any hurricane
volumes that remain shut in or any color on timing of bringing back those volumes on stream?
<A – George Kirkland>: I think we’re at about 87% of our volumes that were impacted. We will
bring another 5 to 8% on. We’ve always been telling everyone that we didn’t see maybe as much
as 5% that would ever be restored. And I think most of this remainder will be on by the end of the
year.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay, great. Just one other follow-up on the decline issue. If I understand – and
I know it’s CapEx related, yet your 7% decline versus the lower 4% at prior CapEx level, is really a
U.S. gas driven event.
<A – George Kirkland>: Predominantly.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Is that fair?
<A – George Kirkland>: It’s a predominantly – we’ve cut down all base business. We’ve got some
issues around the world too where we have base business that could be impacted by OPEC
constraints, that we would look at very similarly to what we’re looking at U.S. gas.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay.
<A – George Kirkland>: I mean, it doesn’t make sense to spend the money and build capacity
where we’re not going to be able to produce it.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Sure. But I mean, also you could have a higher decline base meaning that that
7% could taper lower over time if you – and I know there’s a lot of variables in that math, but is that
the kind of correct thinking?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, the big thing that’s going to happen over time is more and more of
these large projects come on, they do not see the decline in the early periods. Many of them have
multi-year, five year, some of them, and some of them longer flat lives. You look at like TCO,
Tengiz and the investment we’ve made in SGI/SGP, that second generation plant there, that is
almost a flat line, it is not a function at all of the reservoir. It’s only a function of the plant capacity
and the plant capacity doesn’t go down, it stays up. So, you have to look at each one of them, but
more and more – as we get more and more of these large new assets on, that base of production
has very, very low to no decline rates. So, it will change overtime.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay, good.
<A – George Kirkland>: And we’ll have to give you updates on that at least a couple of times a
year on what we’re seeing happening.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Excellent. Thank you for taking my question.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay, thanks. Can we go on to the next caller?
Operator: Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Thank you. Thanks for the color on the DD&A rate. Were there any charges or
other things that ran through DD&A in the first half, if I take that 2.20 a barrel you mentioned,
there’s still seems to be a little bit of a gap. I suppose just wondering if the 3.1 billion rate in 2Q is
sort of a run rate going forward.
<A – James Aleveras>: Arjun, that’s a good question. If you look at the information in our press
release, you can see that our six months 2008 DD&A was about 4.5 billion versus almost 6 billion
for six months of 2009. The major capital projects account for about 55% of that, but then there’s a
lot of other things that I mentioned last quarter that do impact DD&A. Things, such as impairments
that run through that, accretion expense. There’s a lot of different items, as well as base business
that impact DD&A in addition to our major capital projects but I do want to say the major capital
projects were the largest single item and accounted for more than half of the increase. But if you
look at overall DD&A, it’s – the increase is all on the upstream segment.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: That’s great. That’s very helpful. And just a final one, any update on how you’re
thinking about a stock buyback at this point?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Yeah, I mean, Arjun, as we’ve expressed several times here, the
stock buyback piece is really the most discretionary component of our uses of cash and the
priorities are for the dividends, which you saw the Board increased, just funding the capital program
and keeping a good balance sheet. And for the moment, that’s where our priorities are and I don’t –
we’re not reinstating the share repurchase program at this time.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: I mean, you guys clearly have an exceptionally strong balance sheet. I’m not a
diehard stock buyback person, but maybe in this challenging economic environment you just want
to keep an even stronger balance sheet than even is normally considered strong?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Well, I think we just, we have a lot of organic opportunities here and
maintaining flexibility, financial flexibility is important to us.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: That’s great. Thank you.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay, can we move on to the next caller?
Operator: Sure. Our next question comes from Neil McMahon with Sanford Bernstein.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hi, hopefully you can hear me; the line’s not great. Maybe a few for George,
I didn’t pick up when Tahiti was going to hit peak production, if it hadn’t done so already. And also,
on that theme of Gulf Stream, just wondering when you were going to start to think about drilling in
the subsalt in the Campos Basin around Frade, if there was an opportunity to do that going into
2010? And then I’ve got a final follow-up.
<A – George Kirkland>: Well Tahiti, I tried to make that in the early comments. We have reached
peak production. Facility is really designed for about 135,000 barrel equivalent per day. We’ve
reached that already; we ramped up all the wells very, very quickly to that. So, it’s going very
positive. Like all cases, we’re always looking to see if we can get a little more efficiency out of our
facilities, but we already reached the nameplate capacity and, like I said, very, very quickly.
Frade, I think it’s too early for us to start thinking about the subsalt there. We don’t have a lot of
opportunities for us in the basin at this point. We have some, but it’s – we are limited with our lease
holdings there. So, we’re going – having to look to the future and future opportunities in Brazil.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay and then, just a very general question, again, for yourself. A number
of your competitors this week have come out with statements that have suggested that one
company has got the best set of assets in the industry and another one has – is the industry leader
in terms of its options set in the upstream going forward, just wondering how you would classify
your upstream position given the fact that obviously your – based on your competitors, you’re at
least third in the rankings for some reason?
<A – George Kirkland>: There’s been a lot of good work done by analysts and consultants out
there and I think almost consistently they’ve always said Chevron has, if not the best, the – one of
the very best queues of project in the industry. I think you can look back at the number of projects
that we brought on-line in ‘08 and ‘09, and what we’re brining on in ‘10 and see the steps we also
are taking going forward, with Gorgon and Wheatstone, and the quality of those assets, the next
generation facility that we will bring to Tengiz. We’ve got a 400,000 barrel a day expansion that we
can do there, and our position in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the lower tertiary. The first one of
those projects come on in Perdido early next year. We’ve just moved Jack/St. Malo into FEED. We
announced the discovery of Buckskin earlier this year. We’ve got a great queue of projects there.
So, these pro – and all of the projects I’ve just mentioned, at very, very attractive development
costs. So, I’m not aware of any other company that has got a better queue of projects.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Maybe we need to look into a bit more, but thanks for those comments.
<A – George Kirkland>: Okay.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay. Do we have the next caller, please?
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Howard Weil.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Hi, good morning, folks. Jim, you’re going to be missed. The changes
you’ve made over the years have been really appreciated, and I’ll miss working with you.
<A – James Aleveras>: Thank you very much, Doug.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: A couple of questions. I’m going to take advantage of George being there, if
that’s okay. The color on the cost is much appreciated, particularly on depreciation, given the
substantial changes we’ve seen. However, George, is it possible to just give a general kind of
overview as to the new projects that are driving the growth. How does the underlying F&D and the
future DD&A compare to the base business to try and strip away the timing effects? I’m just trying
to understand when we can expect to see some incremental reduction again, a reversal of this
increase that we’ve seen in fairly substantial depreciation? That’s my first one, and I have a quick
follow-up.
<A – George Kirkland>: Yeah, I think it does vary between projects and this type of projects. I
would tell you the deepwater projects are the ones that typically see the highest DD&A rates at the
beginning. I will tell you, they ramp down pretty quickly. The first year with the barrels that have
been booked have extremely high DD&A rates. We tend to, during the startup period, every six
months look at reserves and look at reserve bookings. So, we often actually make mid-year
updates on the reserve picture on these new projects.
My expectation by, in most cases, by the third year, we will have seen a significant drop in the
DD&A rates. We see it move pretty quickly as we book these additional barrels. So, normally, I
would say within two booking cycles we’ll probably have those down. And I would tell you at that
point in time they will be very attractive on a DD&A basis.
But the other side of it, and I think what’s really important to recognize, is these projects tend to
have the lowest OpEx, operating expense, of any barrels we have in the system. And that’s typical
for new projects. You don’t make water. Chemical costs typically are low. You get a lot of barrels
per person in effect, so, it’s a really good time and you really need to, what we really look at of
course, is the margin and the cash margin, which is very, very good in those, on those projects.
Does that help a little bit?
<Q – Doug Leggate>: It does. George, if I could push you just a little more on that particular issue.
Would you characterize the profitability, let’s say, call it, unit margin, on an all-in cost basis, that is,
when full reserve bookings, and so on are in place, has been incrementally better than the base
portfolio? In other words, is your capture rate going to start to improve as you deliver these,
obviously very substantial growth visibility over the next year or two, in your opinion?
<A – George Kirkland>: I would think on average it will improve. I think those barrels are better
barrels in total on a margin context. But it does – for us to see it flow on the book side, on the
earnings side, it’s going to take us probably in some of the projects, the second or third year to
really see that, and it – once again, it varies greatly between projects. You get a project that’s like
Tengiz you don’t see the big impact of it, because you really have characterized the reservoir and
the reserves are a lot more straightforward in the booking. For most of our deepwater projects, the
actual performance, the well performance is needed to book additional barrels, and that’s why the
first couple of years are so important.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Great, and my follow-up was actually related to Wheatstone, the two-train
development going to FEED as you mentioned in your remarks. Can you just give us some color as
to whether you’re going to bring in partners to supply the FEED gas for those two developments or
is this 100% Chevron or where are we in the process of securing the gas?
<A – George Kirkland>: I think it starts with we have with our exploration and appraisal work we
know we have enough gas with Wheatstone and Iago to underwrite a two-train, two 4.3 million ton
per annum train. So, that’s 8.6 tons per year of LNG that can be covered by the Wheatstone and
Iago projects. We would like – and like in all LNG projects, we would like to have a much bigger
footprint, more trains. We’ve got other exploration opportunities in Australia. So, we’d like to be able
to make a bigger footprint, i.e., more trains. So, we are very interested in moving forward with
others to open up a bigger opportunity set for the Wheatstone project or the Wheatstone LNG.
So, it’s both but I think what’s really important is we’ve got enough gas to get to the two trains
ourselves. So, and we’d like to get bigger, because there’s always – the money to be made in LNG
is all about getting more and more trains and more and more gas through it.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: I guess where I am going with this, George, is would you expect fund both
trains 100% Chevron and then any incremental trains would involve partners? Is that a fair way of
thinking about it, or is it not as straightforward?
<A – George Kirkland>: I don’t believe it’s that straightforward and it’s in the early stages. We’ve –
once again, it’s back – we’ve got enough gas to underwrite it. What happens commercially between
now and the next 24 months could shape what we end up with there. I hate to leave it open-ended
but it is – it’s a little bit open-ended on that piece.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: No, that’s great color. Thanks very much indeed.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay, can we have the next caller?
Operator: Our next question comes from Michael LaMotte with JPMorgan.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Thanks, good morning. George, if I could ask on Nigeria quickly, can you
give us an update on your perspective on the state of play there with respect to the fiscal changes,
and really where I’m going with the question is thinking longer term how you think about allocating
capital in light of the risks of change in fiscal terms?
<A – George Kirkland>: Okay, well, capital allocation everywhere is a function of the economic
returns that we will receive. If fiscal terms, either future or retroactively, changes to contracts which
– once again, like everyone, we really want to see contract sanctity. But if you look at the go
forward case, if the economic and fiscal terms change, the capital will flow somewhere else. We are
not sure of capital investment opportunities, and the challenge is always making sure we put our
capital to those best opportunities. And we try to be very, very rigorous in doing that, and if the
terms in one country in the world become inferior, you can bet that the capital will flow to another
opportunity somewhere else in the world.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Is that true, in terms of the incremental CapEx on, say, a project that’s in
queue that hasn’t gone to FEED or FID, as well as any expenses you would have on the
maintenance or operating side?
<A – George Kirkland>: You’re getting to a detailed level where the economics are really pretty
difficult to tell. So, you’re starting to get into those ones where there is some gray in there, and it
depends on the impact, the amount of investment and the amount of risk.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: And we just don’t know enough yet on any of that yet?
<A – George Kirkland>: That’s correct.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Okay. If I could shift gears quickly, just a couple of cleanups on the
numbers, the 40,000 in maintenance in Q2, is all of that backup? Any maintenance plans for the
third quarter?
<A – James Aleveras>: The 40,000 barrels a day of maintenance is partly backup, not fully
backup, and I do not have our next quarter’s plans yet.
<A – George Kirkland>: I can just give a little bit color on it. The second and third quarter for us
are always the heaviest turnaround quarters. That’s when you have typically the best weather. So,
we do have some turnarounds in the U.K. sector I know, and I do believe we have one – some
additional work that may fall in Tengiz later this year. So, there is some more work to come, but I
think we’ve got a lot of the big stuff done.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Okay, and then lastly, on the SGI debottlenecking, where is that going to
go from the 240 nameplate?
<A – George Kirkland>: I think our opportunity is in the 10 to 15% increase, and maybe even
20%, so we are pretty confident of 10 to 15 and we may get as high as a 20% bump on that. What
we’re doing there is, the sulphur plant is really what controls the amount of crude that we’ve been
able – that we can put through that we can’t change the, or increase the sulphur plant capacity. So,
what we’ve really been able to do is we’ve got a little bit more capacity on the front end of the plant
on separation, and the ability to inject a higher H2S gas into the reservoir, and that flexibility is how
we’re able to get this higher rate.
<Q – Michael LaMotte>: Interesting. All right, thanks, that does it for me.
<A – James Aleveras>: Can we have the next caller, please?
Operator: Yes, our next question comes from Robert Kessler with Simmons & Company.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Hi, good morning, George. Does your conservatism on U.S. natural gas
production later this year have any assumption built in for shut-ins whether due to economic
reasons or in want of transportation capacity to get your gas to the market?
<A – George Kirkland>: No, it’s -
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Okay.
<A – George Kirkland>: Decline rates on U.S. gas are pretty high and we’ve, we’re pulling the
trigger reducing the amount of investment in that arena. And it’s going to start responding and
declining. Maybe even to give you a little additional color, we have – at Piceance Basin we have a
facility that will be coming on. We have a nice area of development up there, 30,000 plus acres.
We’ve drilled a large number of wells and we’ll be starting up a facility there, but we’re shutting
down all drilling in the Piceance. And we had plans at one time to be up to even six or eight rigs
running there. So, we are going to shut down the last rig. We’ve been running two there for a
couple of years and we’re going to shut that down.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Beyond shutting down the zero on the incremental drilling is there a price
below which you would actually turn off the taps?
<A – George Kirkland>: That gets more into supply, the supply and demand balance. Of course,
there is a price at some point that you’re not going to supply gas. We’ve done no – I’ve done no
work or seen any work that we’ve done in that arena.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Okay. Separately on Tengiz, just trying to think about, going forward, now
that you’ve got the capacity there, what sort of utilization rates should we think about for those
facilities? Obviously you had quite a bit in maintenance last year. I imagine more than normal to tie
in the new facilities. But if we think of a normal run rate utilization, say, 2010, 2011 and onwards,
how should we think about that?
<A – George Kirkland>: Mid-90s.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Okay. Good, thank you very much.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay. Could we have the next caller please?
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hey. George, I just want to make sure I hear you correctly. You say you are
not going to have any more active gas rig at all in the lower 48 by year-end?
<A – George Kirkland>: That’s correct on land rigs. Land gas rigs.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Right, land gas rigs.
<A – George Kirkland>: Land gas rigs by the end of the year I expect <Q – Paul Cheng>: No work over or anything?
<A – George Kirkland>: No development gas drilling.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay.
<A – George Kirkland>: I’ll go that far, I wouldn’t hazard to say that that far on we would have
anything with regards to workovers.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. No new development drilling.
<A – George Kirkland>: Right.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. On a poised sense, I think several years ago that at one point you guys
were pretty interested in trying to expand your footprint. In the last two or three years I think you
have been pretty quiet or then not totally crazy about that. I mean, where are we from a company
standpoint, what is your strategy or what is the priority of the oil sand in your portfolio at this point?
<A – George Kirkland>: Paul, we are investing in the expansion of the Albian oil sands with Shell,
the Athabasca Oil Sands project up there, that expansion should come online in 2010. That’s on a
gross barrel basis that’s about 100,000 barrels a day and our working interest share is 20%. That
will make the footprint we have in Canada – that will give us over – that, with the existing
production, will give us over 50,000 barrels a day of oil sands production.
We like oil sands in the sense of the resource, the location, so that’s a positive. At this point though,
the cost of developing it and operating it, it’s tough to make money in a $50 world. So, the
challenge for us – and we’ve got opportunities participating with our partners to expand up there,
but we see it needs to happen when we can control the capital cost and bring the capital cost down
and when we have a high – a view of higher oil prices. So, that’s what’s important for us. With –
inside our project queue, oil sands makes up a pretty small piece of it. And when you look at the
economics of it, it’s the weakest set of projects with inside our queue of projects – weakest in an
economic sense.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Very good. Thank you.
<A – James Aleveras>: Okay. Shawn, do we have any more callers?
Operator: I am not showing any further questions, sir.
Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Okay, then I’ll just go ahead and close up. Thank you, Shawn. Before ending completely here I just
want to reiterate a couple of key messages here. The operations ran very well, are running really
very well. Project execution is very strong. You heard from George about the volume increases that
we’re seeing year-over-year as planed. We have a strong focus on cost management, $2.5 billion
target, 10% target reduction for year-over-year, we’re running ahead of pace on that and we’re very
intent on sustaining that momentum.
I appreciate, we appreciate everybody’s participation on the call today and I want to thank
everybody on the call on behalf of, everybody on the call for the analysts to have questions. Thank
you very much.

Operator: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s second quarter 2009
earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.