Operator: Good morning. My name is Shawn and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants
are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question and answer session
and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference
call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. Dave O’Reilly. Please go ahead.

David J. O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Shawn. Welcome to Chevron’s third quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On
the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our CFO, and Jeanette Ourada, General Manager,
Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and operating results for the third
quarter of 2009. I’m going to refer to the slides that are available on Chevron’s website.
But before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections
and other forward-looking statements. So please review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, which provides an overview of our financial performance, let me cover a few
points. The company’s third quarter earnings were $3.8 billion or $1.92 per diluted share. Our third
quarter 2009 earnings were down 51% from the third quarter 2008. Third quarter earnings were
120% higher than second quarter 2009, and Pat’ll be discussing this shortly.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 12.6% and the debt ratio was 10.4% at
the end of the quarter. Our net cash flow position this quarter was positive by nearly $2 billion after
funding our capital program, dividend commitments, and $700 million in pension contributions. This
positive cash generation was underpinned by higher crude oil prices and strong cash margins from
our major capital projects.
I’d like to give a brief recap of our strategic progress in recent months so please turn to slide 4. Our
industry leading exploration program has continued its success with recent discoveries in Angola
and Australia. In Angola we announced a Block 0 discovery in the Greater Vanza Longui Area. The
discovery well encountered over 225 feet of net pay. This discovery extends the trend of
undeveloped natural gas, condensate and crude oil discoveries that are currently undergoing
appraisal.
We also announced three natural gas discoveries this quarter in the Carnarvon Basin offshore
Western Australia. The three discovery wells, Clio-2, Kentish Knock-1 and Achilles-1, are all
located in Australia’s premier hydrocarbon basin where Chevron is the leading lease holder. All
three blocks are Chevron operated and add to our significant gas resources in Australia.
Our upstream major capital projects continue their strong performance. Offshore Nigeria our
Agbami project reached name plate capacity of 250,000 barrels day in August 2009. This was over
four months ahead of schedule. Production efficiency to date has been excellent and volumes are
steady at these target rates. Offshore Angola, Tombua-Landana is Chevron’s most recent major
project for Block 14. It achieved first production in the third quarter, and drilling of additional wells
continues and peak production of 100,000 barrels a day is expected to be reached in 2011.
In the United States we recently entered FEED for our deepwater Big Foot project. Big Foot is
located in the Walker Ridge area of the Gulf of Mexico, 35 miles south of Chevron’s Tahiti Field.

The development facility design is a tension leg platform and it would be the deepest build to date.
Chevron is the operator with a 60% interest.
In Australia we announced a final investment decision for Gorgon. This occurred in September and
is a significant milestone for the company. We expect Gorgon to add to our reserves and provide
stable and steady production for decades to come. The project has around 40 trillion cubic feet of
resources which is the equivalent to about 6.7 billion barrels of oil. Gorgon is a three-train, 15
million metric ton per year project and is well positioned to meet growing Asian demand for natural
gas, and will be a true legacy asset for the company.
Following the final investment decision milestone we’ve signed long-term sales and purchase
agreements representing greater than 40% of our Gorgon offtake. We also have head of
agreement in place for roughly another 40% of production and expect to finalize these agreements
in the coming months.
Also in Australia we recently signed agreements with two companies to join our Wheatstone LNG
project. Together the two companies will be 25% partners in the project’s first two LNG trains.
Chevron will maintain our current interest in Wheatstone and Iago fields as our partner’s natural
gas supply will be coming from their own fields. This establishes Wheatstone as an LNG hub and
we anticipate that additional Chevron and third party gas will be available for a future expansion
now that the foundation project is in place.

For example, our recent Clio discoveries could provide additional volumes, and this will support
Chevron’s strategy to commercialize gas in Australia and also enhances project economics. We
answered front-end engineering for Wheatstone in July 2009, and expect to make a final
investment decision in 2011.
I’ll now turn it over to Pat who will take us through the quarterly comparisons. Pat?

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Dave. My remarks compare the results of third quarter 2009 with the second quarter 2009.
And as a reminder, our earnings release compares third quarter 2009 with the same quarter a year
ago.
So turning to slide 5, third quarter earnings were up 2.1 billion from the second quarter. Stronger
upstream earnings accounted for all of this improvement, driven by higher crude oil realizations and
a continued production ramp up of our major capital projects. Upstream earnings also benefited
from roughly 400 million of Gorgon-related asset sales and tax items as well as a favorable foreign
currency variance of about 400 million. As a reminder, these foreign currency earnings impacts are
predominantly related to balance sheet translation and do not have a cash impact.
Third quarter downstream results were essentially flat with the second quarter. Favorable timing
effects and improved West Coast margins were offset in part by unfavorable foreign currency
effects. Also recall that the second quarter included $140 million benefit from asset sales. The
variance in the Other bar reflects higher chemical earnings, more than offset by an unfavorable
variance in corporate items.
On slide 6, our U.S. upstream earnings for the third quarter were about 600 million higher than the
second quarter’s results. Combined crude oil and natural gas realization benefited earnings by 300
million. Chevron’s average U.S. crude oil realizations increased about $10 per barrel between the
consecutive quarters, more than the nearly $8.50 increase in the average spot price of WTI.

Natural gas realizations were flat between quarters. Production volumes increased more than 6%
between the quarters as the ramp up of Tahiti in the Gulf of Mexico more than offset natural fuel
declines. The settlement of certain insurance claims related to Hurricane Rita contributed 110
million to the current quarter results, and the Other bar reflects primarily lower impairment charges
and lower DD&A rate.
Turning to slide 7, our international upstream earnings increased about 1.5 billion compared with
second quarter results. Higher oil and natural gas realizations improved earnings by 520 million.
Our unit realizations for liquids improved 16%, in line with the increase in Brent spot prices. Natural
gas realizations were also higher in the third quarter, contributing about 25 million to earnings.
And as Dave mentioned, our Gorgon LNG project in Australia reached a final investment decision
in September. This formal project approval triggered recognition of roughly 400 million in gains on
sales of partial interests in the project and related tax effects. This equity realignment between
Chevron and our partners occurred and cash was received in 2005, but the earnings impact was
appropriately deferred until project sanction.
The FX bar includes continued losses associated with the weakening of the U.S. dollar against
several major currencies, although the impact this quarter was nearly $400 million less than in the
prior quarter. The Other bar is a benefit of 201 million, about half of which is due to the absence of
second quarter well write-off. Lower DD&A rates and higher liftings account for the majority of the
remaining variance.

Slide 8 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production including volumes produced
from oil sands in Canada. Production increased 32,000 barrels a day between quarters. Higher
prices reduced volumes under production sharing contracts and variable royalty provisions by
21,000 barrels per day.
The Base Business & External Constraints bar shows a decline of 46,000 barrels per day.
Reductions due to base business declines and local disruptions in Nigeria were partially offset by
lower OPEC member constraints. By early September, Nigerian oil operations were back to normal.
And as George Kirkland mentioned in our second quarter call, we expect our full year base
business decline rate to average about 6%, which is consistent with year-to-date results.
As shown in the green bar, increased production from major capital projects benefited third quarter
production by almost 100,000 barrels a day, primarily driven by the ramp up of Tahiti and higher
volumes at TCO and Agbami.
Turning to slide 9, U.S. downstream earnings increased about 130 million in third quarter. The
overall impact of refining and marketing indicator margins accounted for the entire $130 million
increase. Marketing margins improved, especially on the West Coast where refinery outages and
maintenance combined with driving season demand drove retail prices higher.
Timing effects represented a $75 million positive variance, in large part due to the absence of
unfavorable effects in the second quarter. WTI prices were essentially flat from the beginning of the
quarter – third quarter compared to $20 – they were flat from the beginning to the end of the third
quarter compared to a $20 per barrel increase during the second quarter.
In addition, lagged aviation pricing created a positive variance in comparison to the second quarter.
The components making up the Other bar include reduced volumes due to Richmond’s planned
third quarter 2009 maintenance downtime and lower lubricants margins.
Turning to slide 10, international downstream earnings decreased about 100 million from the
second quarter’s results. Timing effects represented $250 million positive variance between the
quarters. Consistent with the U.S., this mostly reflects the absence of unfavorable timing effects in
the second quarter. Impacts in the third quarter were much less, reflecting lower pricing volatility.
The next bar shows the absence of 140 million of gains on asset sales recorded in the second
quarter. Foreign exchange effects were a negative 75 million compared to the prior quarter, and the
Other bar is a negative variance of 131 million, about half of which is attributable to an unfavorable
tax variance. The remainder is comprised of several smaller items including higher operating
expenses related in part to increased transportation cost.
Slide 11 shows that earnings from our chemical operations increased 56 million in the third quarter.
Results for olefins, aromatics and oronite additives all reflected higher realized margins.
Slide 12 covers all other. Third quarter net charges were 167 million compared to a net $43 million
charge in the second quarter. The increase of over 120 million between quarters mostly reflects
variances in tax items and foreign exchange effects. The all other charges for the second and third
quarters were below our typical guidance range of 250 to 350 million per quarter.

Now on slide 13, I’d like to wrap up by providing a brief summary of our operational performance
through the first three quarters of 2009. On the second quarter earnings call, we raised our
production outlook. We indicated a year-over-year 5% volume increase. Our major capital projects
continue performing on plan or better, and on a year-to-date basis we have achieved a 6%
increase. Assuming constant prices, we now expect to exceed the 2009 full year production outlook
as we communicated on the second quarter call.
Our year-to-date refinery crude utilization remains strong at 92% of capacity. Solomon has recently
released its 2008 results. Solomon as you know is an external benchmarking organization that
gathers data on the refining industry and reports out every two years. So for two consecutive
biannual reporting periods, Chevron has held the number one ranking in refinery utilization
compared to the eight other international majors tracked by Solomon. Our success in increasing
refinery reliability contributed to these results, and we believe it will be critical in this challenged
downstream environment going forward.
Our upstream major capital projects are meeting or exceeding expectation, with many starting and
ramping up ahead of schedule. Over the past five quarters, we have delivered six significant
operative projects: Agbami in Nigeria, the Tengiz expansion in Kazakhstan, Blind Faith and Tahiti in
the Gulf of Mexico, Frade in Brazil, and Tombua-Landana in Angola. Combined, they represent a
gross investment of over 25 billion, with projected total peak production in excess of 900,000
barrels per day of oil equivalent.
On costs, our continued focus on cost management is delivering results. Through the first three
quarters of 2009, operating and SG&A expenses were down 3.5 billion compared with the same
period of 2009. On a recurring basis, as mentioned in our press release, they’re running about 13%
below last year. So we are ahead of our 2.5 billion or 10% reduction goal that I communicated on
the second quarter call. I’d note that this figure excludes fuel. Our cost – our focus on aggressively
managing cost will continue and we expect to see further positive results from our efforts.
And finally, we’re maintaining our strategic focus on the factors that will ensure our growth and our
superior returns to stockholders in the years ahead.
Now as you all know, our Chairman and CEO, Dave O’Reilly, has announced his retirement at the
end of this year. I’d be remiss if I didn’t acknowledge and thank Dave for his more than 40 years of
service to the company. And in particular, I would like to acknowledge his superior leadership of
Chevron over the past 10 years as CEO, during which time our market capitalization has grown
about 100 billion. So thank you, Dave.

I’ll now hand it back to you, Dave, for your closing comments.

David J. O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Well thanks, Pat. I would like to spend a few minutes talking about management transition. As Pat
pointed out, I’ve announced my retirement at the end of the year and John Watson will become
Chairman and CEO in January. This is part of a well planned succession process. John is a proven
leader who has played a pivotal role in many significant accomplishments in recent years, including
leading the merger integration with Texaco.
He brings a mix of corporate and operational experience, having served as President of our
International Exploration and Production operations, also as our CFO, and corporate Vice President
of Strategic Planning. John has also been actively engaged in formulating our current strategies as
a member of the company’s Strategy and Planning Committee for over 10 years. John will be
supported by a very strong team including George Kirkland who will join the Board and continue to
lead our upstream oil and gas businesses.
Our strategies are working well and the company’s performing well, but I think even more
importantly, the company is in very capable hands and I expect a seamless transition. I’m very
proud of our accomplishments and deeply indebted to all of the people of Chevron for their
dedication to the company during the time of my leadership. I also want to express my thanks to the
many of you who are investors in the company. I’ve enjoyed our association over the years and I
wish all of you the best for the future.
Operator: Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]. Our first question comes from Doug
Terreson with ISI Group.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Good morning, everyone.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Hi.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Good morning, Doug.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: First I want to congratulate you, Dave, on a great career and I agree with
Jeanette (sic) [Patricia] that you provided exemplary leadership during the past decade which has
obviously been an important period of change for the supermajors, so good luck to you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: You’re welcome. Excuse me – on cost, the release mentioned a 13%
decline in your recurring expenses, which is obviously a pretty significant number. And on this point
I wanted to see if you would provide some color on the rate of change, that is, how its movement in
the capture rate on recurring cost in relation to the previous couple of quarters?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay, Pat, do you want to kind of handle that question?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Sure, yeah.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Because I think it’s a good question...
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah.
<A – David O’Reilly>: And we’re very proud of what we’ve accomplished and I think we’re on a
good run here.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Sure.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Pat?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Doug – right, Doug, I think that we have continued to gain momentum
on our cost reduction efforts as the quarters have progressed here. A lot of the activity that we did
in the earlier part of the year obviously with sitting down and meeting one on one with the suppliers
and the vendors and to a large extent, many of those contract renegotiations began to trigger in the
second quarter and will continue on in the third quarter. So I think we have a tremendous amount of
momentum behind us and – as well as going forward. So I would look forward to further positive
results on this dimension going forward.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Great, answers the question. Thanks again and good luck, Dave.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you, Doug.
Operator: Our next question comes from Robert Kessler with Simmons & Company.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Hi, I’ll join Doug in congratulating you, Dave, on a great career at Chevron.
Couple of things from me, firstly the tax rate. I’m wondering, Pat, if you might be able to offer us a
clean tax rate figure, recognizing that some of that 400 million from the Gorgon item is buried in
there and lowering the tax rate, and then any guidance going forward on that? And then secondly,
just wondering if you might be willing to comment as to your – the status of your Northwood
prospect in the Gulf?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well, I’ll take the tax question here, Dave. Yes, third quarter to second
quarter, we did see a reduction in our tax rate of nearly 10%. The Gorgon components, Gorgonrelated items were a significant piece of that as were foreign exchange losses. Those were about
equally large contributors to that. So obviously going forward, you’re not going to have the Gorgonrelated component. But frankly foreign exchange is very hard for us to in any way predict, so it’s
hard for us to give you an advance version of what the quarter clean number might look like. Lot of
variables moving in a lot of directions with a lot of jurisdictions and a lot of components, so I don’t
have guidance for you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Robert, I didn’t quite catch the prospect you were...
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Northwood.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Northwood.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: The Northwood Paleogene prospect in the Gulf of Mexico.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right.
<A – David O’Reilly>: I don’t think I’m free to say anything about that at the moment. I apologize
but I can’t comment on it.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Okay, thanks anyway.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay, next question please?
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi, everybody. David, indeed it’s been a pleasure to know you and
congratulations on behalf of Deutsche Bank, thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Gorgon, the CapEx number, could you give us an idea of what that’s going to
be? We’re working with the idea that it’s about a $35 billion spend before 2015 gross for all the
partners. Thanks.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I think we described that I think pretty clearly in our press release
when we announced the projects. The number was 43 billion Australian if I recall. I don’t have the
press release in front of me, but I think that was the number. And I might just add that that project is
– I’ve just come from Australia to check on the initial execution at that project and work is already
underway on Barrow Island. They’re – between six and $10 billion worth of contracts have already
been let. So this thing is out – it’s very well planned and it’s already in the early execution plays,
and I was very, very pleased with what I saw there.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: And, David, is the – the contracts that are signed, are they going to be the
classic oil price link?
<A – David O’Reilly>: I – oh, the – oh yes, the sales contracts themselves...
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, sorry, I should have said the sales contracts.
<A – David O’Reilly>: ...now we move to the other side of project. Yeah, these are essentially oil –
very close oil parity, oil linked contracts. And as I mentioned, 40% of the volumes have already
been executed and the others are very close, within the next few months.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Great, okay.
<A – David O’Reilly>: We’re very pleased with the progress there and thank you for the question.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Sure. And then if I could ask my second question on the ForEx issue again,
my understanding was that it tended to work against you when the dollar weakened. But it seems to
have worked for you and I understand it’s not a cash issue and everything else, but it does seem to
have worked in your favor this quarter and that’s confused me a bit. Could you just help me
understand why it’s kind of going the other way from last...?
<A – David O’Reilly>: I think it was negative in both quarters...
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right.
<A – David O’Reilly>: But just a little bit less negative.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Less negative.
<A – David O’Reilly>: So quarter-to-quarter it worked positively but it’s still a negative on – in
absolute terms.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Okay, so that...?
<A – David O’Reilly>: It was dramatically negative in the second quarter, not quite as negative in
the third.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And that’s because the rate of the currency changes, second quarter
versus third quarter were different, a much greater weakening in the second quarter than in the
third quarter of the U.S. dollar.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, okay, so the general trend remains the same that if we get a
strengthening of the U.S. dollar, it’s going to work in the opposite way for you. Okay, I understand
that. Thanks a lot.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: That’s correct.
<A – David O’Reilly>: That is correct, yeah. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Good afternoon or morning for you guys on the West Coast. Thanks for taking
my call and congratulations on another strong quarter and congratulations to both John and David
in your new roles as well as previous contributions. I had one question for you guys on – it’s a less
favorite topic but there have been some supportive facts for Chevron in the Ecuadorian proceeding.
I know you filed a motion for annulment as well as a collateral action in the international arbitration
in The Hague against the government. Now the presiding judge is on, he’s off, he’s on the case,
he’s off the case.
Can you provide us with just any general update on timing or kind of facts around what’s pending in
the judicial process for those claims, and what’s the hurdle before you may expect some kind of
ultimate opinion to be at least rendered in Lago Agrio?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you for the question and the comments. The answer on timing is we
really don’t know. I mean we’re going through a period of dealing with the new judge. He has – as
you point out, there – you know, the judge, the original or one of the judges – the judge that was
previously on the case, let me put that way, recused himself, then he was reinstated and then he
was recused again. So we are definitely now with a new judge.
We did file an appeal for annulment or a motion for annulment which this judge has in recent – in
the last week or so denied. But to be able to predict the timing in a court system that is totally
unpredictable and unreliable, I think it’s just difficult to do. You know, in a normal court process this
judge would be going very carefully through all the rulings that were made by the prior judge and
spending considerable amount of time on evaluating the circumstances. So it’s very hard for us to
put a timetable on that.

We have two – you mentioned the international arbitration. There are really two issues there.
There’s one longstanding commercial claim issue relative to the government’s refusal to rule itself
in its own courts in Ecuador on money that they – we believe is due us over the course of the
original contract. And then we had a second one much more recently filed, which is really a breach
of contract on the basic fundamental contractual issues itself, where we believe and we believe
justifiably that the Ecuadorians are responsible for the damage that exists there.
So – but Ecuador has chosen not to appoint its arbitrator yet on that one, even though the deadline
for appointing an arbitrator has passed. So these are all very hard to predict from a timing
perspective and I wish I could give you a clearer picture. So that’s the best that we have at the
moment, Evan.
<Q – Evan Calio>: No, thank you. Has this Judge Zambrano, has he overseen any other elements
of the case? I know it’s been a longer history.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I don’t think – I just don’t – I don’t know that answer but I don’t think
so. I think he’s new to the case but has been in the same court, now there’s -- there’s a panel of
judges. So he’s part of the same court system but not – I can’t answer the question if he’s ever
been involved in the case before. I don’t think he has directly as a judge but I’m not sure.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay. And then one last question if I may on the way out, just if you could
provide us with any other projects moving into FID still on track, Agbami Phase II, Caesar Tonga,
Chuandongbei, if there’s – you know, any...?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I think I will – yeah, basically there’s been no real change.
Chuandongbei is – I was also in China recently and that is moving along. The government – all the
government approvals have now been obtained so we’re actually, in addition to the preliminary
work which was done, we are now – we’ll now be ramping up. And preliminary work is kind of
securing wells and some infrastructure work that could be done early, but now we’ll be moving into
the kind of full execution phase there. So that is – that – Phase I of that project is kind of moving
along very well.
We have Agbami Phase II, that is still on schedule. We’ve got Perdido, which we’re partnered up in,
in the deepwater which is scheduled to come on in the first quarter of next year. So we’ve got –
basically everything else that we’ve talked about, Evan, is pretty much on plan in general terms.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay, thank you, thank you very much.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re welcome.
Operator: Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Thank you. Dave, let me offer my congratulations and best wishes as well and
I do thank you for your help over the years. My question was really on U.S. shale gas, and if you
could provide any comments on what interest you have in sort of building up a more meaningful
position there? You obviously have the big Australia LNG positions and lot of gas elsewhere. U.S.
shale gas seems to be maybe one area of possible opportunity. And then do you have an update
just on the status of the Jack/St. Malo project and where that is in moving along to FID? Thank you
very much.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay, you’re very welcome. First of all in shale gas, we have – shale gas
and tight gas overall, we have a presence in the Haynesville. It’s land that we control so we can
control the pace of that. We have been doing some development drilling to test the most economic
way to develop that.
And then the other area, tight gas of course is in the Piceance, where we have basically slowed
down our progress there. We have – we’re building the capacity to produce I think 60 million cubic
feet a day or so there. We have enough well capacity to supply that for some time. But as George
mentioned in earlier calls, we have curtailed our gas activity somewhat because we have the
discretion to do it, and made that decision late last year because we could see that the gas market
was going to be very weak.
And so we focused this year primarily on the oil side other than the big projects, the long-term
projects of course, which are indexed to oil in the case of LNG. So that was a deliberate decision
on our part. I can’t really – I don’t want to speculate about what we might do further in shale other
than it’s something that we are interested in and will continue to pursue. But we’re using this time to
get our – to develop the expertise to do that as efficiently as we possibly can, using our drilling
expertise and – which we have in great depth in the company.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: I think, Dave, that – not to interrupt, I think that really is sort of the question. I’m
not asking if you’re going to do an acquisition or anything but can a large supermajor like yourself
really be effective in shale gas? You all are very good at the big projects around the world. It’s sort
of the U.S. E&P opportunity, whether that’s really something for you all?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Yeah, well, I think we can because if you look at what we’re doing in
Thailand, it’s very instructive. We drilled rapid fire wells in Thailand, in the Gulf of Thailand and
have been doing so. Unocal was the forerunner of that and we have – when we combined Chevron
and Unocal, we’ve been able to ramp that up and strengthen it even further. So I think our drilling
organization and our company is quite capable of multiple well programs and we’ve demonstrated
that capability.
What we’re demonstrating right now or working on right now is making sure we understand what it
is we have to replicate time and time again, because what we would be doing in the shale is
somewhat different than the drilling we’re doing in the Gulf of Thailand. So I feel pretty confident it
can be done. But we have to be able to do it at scale to move the needle, and that’s what we would
propose to do. Your second question I think was on Jack and St. Malo?
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Yeah.
<A – David O’Reilly>: That is coming along well. It’s in front-end engineering. It’s expected that we
will get to an investment decision in 2011. Also – maybe no, actually now that I think about it, I think
it’s late next year, 2010...
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right, right, 2010.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Late 2010 and everything there is pretty much on plan with what we’ve
discussed at the prior calls and in our meeting back in New York in March.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Okay, that’s terrific. Thank you very much.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you, Arjun. You’re welcome.
Operator: Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Thank you. And Dave, as an old Chevron hand, I’d like to add my thanks
and congratulations on your distinguished career.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: And I was hoping to ask you a broader question on the refining and
marketing segment of the business. On a worldwide basis, margins are obviously quite poor right
now, seems to be a lot of overcapacity. What are your thoughts on how that segment of the
business gets back to a better margin environment and how long that’s going to take? And then
maybe if you could just add your strategic positioning, how you think you are advantaged or
disadvantaged relative to the rest of the industry?
<A – David O’Reilly>: That’s a big question. We are – well, first of all on the macro level, I think we
can – it is – we’re headed for a weak period here. The golden age of refining didn’t last that long but
we are into a weak period until we see the obvious combination of demand growth and some form
of rationalization occur among the weaker players and in the more oversupplied areas of the globe.
And that’s why as a company, that we have chosen to invest primarily in what we consider to be the
growth areas, and that’s been the West Coast of the U.S. and the Pacific, where the growth
characteristics are clearly more robust.
And I think that is playing out, having just been in Asia, you could see that the markets there, the
economies there are growing. And that is going to lead to growth in demand that will be ahead of
what we will experience in United States and ahead of – certainly ahead of what will be
experienced in Europe. So I think our strategy, which is to focus on the growth areas and then
strengthen those growth areas by culling out the parts of our portfolio that don’t match up to what
we’re trying to accomplish strategically is the right strategy, and it’s the one we’ve been pursuing for
some time and we will continue I think to pursue along that path.
I think – the other – only other point I would make that advantages us is that relative to our size, I
think our refining portfolio is somewhat smaller, but clearly more focused in these growth areas.
And I think it will take a few years for this to kind of work its way through, and I would expect 2010
and 2011 to be pretty sloppy before we see this begin to come back into better balance.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Thanks, Dave, I appreciate your thoughts and best wishes for the future.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hi, good morning. Dave, I just want to say congratulation and best wishes with
your retirement. Thank you for all the help.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: If I could have two questions. One, Dave, you’re talking about Wheatstone,
when you guys are going to start in terms of the sales effort? And whether – I mean if we look at
between 2014 with the Gorgon coming on stream and to 2017 with you guys, Wheatstone, and
maybe the PNG and also Plato, a number of very large projects still going to come onstream.
Have you guys sensed that whether the market is still be able to absorb all those additional cargo
and be able to maintain your pricing power there? Any kind of evident that would be helpful. The
second question is related to the $3.5 billion of the cost saving Pat mentioned. Pat, can you
elaborate a bit more in terms of breaking down whether by different component, the labor, the
vendor, or anything like that or by settlement? That would be really helpful. Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Okay, well, I’ll take the first one as you asked and then Pat will take the
second one, Paul, and thank you for your kind remarks. Wheatstone, we’re very, very pleased with
the progress at Wheatstone, not only on the supply side where we’ve made this arrangement now
with Apache and KUFPEC to augment the supply and have them participate obviously in the first
two trains at Wheatstone.
But the good news is we’re finding tremendous interest in the gas itself from the market. And I am
absolutely convinced that we will have a successful outcome here. Just as we have done on other
projects, we will execute heads of agreement with the appropriate parties that will be contingent on
final investment decision, just as we’ve done with Gorgon. And you will see – continue to see
progress in this area as we move the project along during the coming months and next year...
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Dave, can I – Dave, I’m sorry, can I interpret that the marketing of the
Wheatstone gas is already started, you are not waiting until you finalize the sales of Gorgon?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Yes, no, absolutely, it’s a – the sales on Gorgon are almost at a conclusion
right now. The final SPAs on the outstanding sales that we’ve talked about are almost complete. I
think I mentioned that in my remarks earlier. So what we really are – our big effort right now is
marketing – is on the marketing of Wheatstone and we’re finding a very receptive market and I
think one that clearly is going to be needed given the growth that we are experiencing in Asian
demand.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: So on the operating cost question, I’m going to turn that back to Pat. Pat?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. Yeah, Paul, you asked for little bit more information on the cost
side. Let me just start and say of the $3.5 billion year-over-year reduction, our estimates are that
about two thirds of that is sustainable and about one third is associated with self-help. The cost
reduction that we’re seeing is generally across the board, I mean uniformly across all of our
business segments. And transportation is clearly a component, a large component of that, as is
contract labor, materials and supplies, services, it is really a very broad based cost reduction
success story that we’re having.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Pat, I’m sorry, you say two thirds is sustainable and one third is self-help, what
exactly does that mean? I mean between sustainable...?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I’m saying, if you’re looking on a go forward basis, we were down 3.5
billion year-over-year, some of that is non-recurring. For example, last year in the third quarter, we
had significant hurricane impacts so...
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Oh, okay, okay.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: On a go forward basis, we’re saying two thirds of the reduction that
you’re seeing here we believe is a sustainable component, okay.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: And it means that two third of the sustainable, you say one third is self-help or
that is also a 3.5 billion, one third is self-help?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Of the 3.5 billion, one third is self-help. The other relates to kind of
general market indicators, lower activity, kind of global demand market related components.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Right, and your 3.5 billion is not including energy fuel cost, right, you said?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: The 3.5 billion does include a small, very small energy fuel component.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay.
<A – David O’Reilly>: It’s less than 10%.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Right. Pat, is it possible you can break down the 3.5 billion by divisions?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I don’t want to do that, Paul. As I said, it’s a pretty ratable – in terms of
the 3.5 billion reductions, it’s very ratable according to the cost incidence, the original cost
incidence by our business segments.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: I see, okay, thank you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: The bottom line of all of this, Paul, is that of the – about two-thirds of this is
totally is sustainable. About one-third of it is price sensitive such as fuel and transportation and
those sort of things. So that two-thirds year-over-year we feel pretty good about. And some of it is
related to that hurricane impact and a lot of it’s self-help as well. So we’re seeing at all, but we’re
not going to break it down any further for you than we would for anybody else.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay, thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Flannery with Credit Suisse.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Great, congratulations, Dave. I hope you have a good time in your
retirement. Thanks for all the help.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you, Mark.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: I’d like to talk about capital costs. You’ve been talking a lot about operating
cost on this call. Other companies have pointed to some reductions on the capital side. Are you
guys seeing that particularly in the upstream and if so, could you give us some idea of the
magnitude? And then I have a follow-up after that.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I’m going to have Pat address a few of these but we are seeing some
– it depends on the category of cost, capital cost, where we’re seeing some reductions clearly. And
I’ll have Pat address just a little bit more, with more granular response to some of that.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, I mean I think what’s – I’ve said in the past calls that depending
upon which cost category you’re talking about, we’ve had cost reduction ranges anywhere from
60% on the high end if it’s a highly commoditized product versus 10% on the low end if it’s
something much more specialized. We have seen and we’ve also stated in the past that in terms of
our 2009 capital program, a large portion of that was already committed you know, pre-committed
before coming into the 2009 calendar year.
So the cost reduction activity, lower capital cost activity that you’ll see is really going to be
somewhat in 2009 but really in 2010 and going forward. And I’m sure you’re paying attention to, just
as we are the upstream you know, see our cost, the capital cost indices and you’ve seen that they
came down. They kind of – they turned over but they are not falling nearly at the same rate that
they were earlier in the year. So with higher oil prices we’ve seen a little bit of a dampening of that
particular slope. But year-over-year, we are going to see some benefit in ‘09 for lower capital costs
and we expect to see some continued benefit of that going forward in 2010.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Okay, great. My second question is on decline rates, and you referenced
what George said earlier in the year that underlying decline rates would be about 6%, a little bit
lower than the 7% that had been talked about before. With oil prices where they are, let’s just call
them $80 for ease, is there scope to get that number down further do you think in 2010?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And I think we...
<A – David O’Reilly>: I – yeah, go ahead, Pat.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I was just going to say I think on that one we really need – we’re
putting our plans together now. We really need to finish that process and provide you a better
indication of that when we see you in March at the Analyst Meeting.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Yeah, I was going to add to that, Mark, I think that we still – the underlying
decline rate this year will be about 6%. And as we pointed out, that relates to deliberate decisions
made primarily in the natural gas area where the prices were weak. And it’s too soon to predict
where we’ll go next other than I think we’ve demonstrated an agility here that I think that we made
the right decision on how to invest some of that discretionary capital at the beginning of the year,
and it’s paying off right now by having a leaning towards oil and less in the near-term gas. And I
think by demonstrating that agility, you can count that it will be demonstrated in the other direction if
it’s appropriate. And we’ll make that read as we get closer to the next year’s plan.
<Q – Mark Flannery>: Great, okay. Thanks again.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you. Thank you, Mark.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with Benchmark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Good morning, folks. Dave, best wishes for your retirement. I envy you.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thanks, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Just two questions if I could, please. One relating to the Block 0 discovery
announcement and the trend, Dave, which I believe you referred to. I’m curious as to whether this
is a new play relative to your longstanding activities in Block 0, or whether it’s merely an extension
of that which you’ve been doing previously in terms of the horizon that you’ll be exploiting? And
then I’ve got a follow-up.
<A – David O’Reilly>: No, it’s not really a new play. We’ve had a number of areas at Block 0, even
though we’ve been in it for some time, that we obviously deferred exploration in until we got the
extension of Block 0 which we concluded a few years ago. So this is now just – I wouldn’t
characterize this as a new play, but just a further validation I think that there is – that we’re in a very
oil and gas rich area and that we’re exploiting and investing as you would expect us to do now that
we’ve had that contract extended for the next 25 years or so.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, second question relates to production sharing contract issues generally
speaking. If you work off the production bar chart, in essence what you’re talking about now I
believe would be a sensitivity of about 2,000 barrels a day per dollar per barrel price change, which
is higher than what has been discussed in the past. And you’ve indicated that this will move around.
But I notice in particular frankly both with your results as well those of others that there seems to be
some hypersensitivity with respect to Indonesian volumes lately, vis-à-vis this issue. Can you folks
offer some observations as to what might be going on in this regard?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, Mark, I don’t know that we have any particular insights there. I
mean I think we have indicated the tremendous kind of volatility or variability around a range of oil
prices here. I mean Indonesia is one of the primary contributors to that variance there, but I don’t
know that I can speak to anything unique or uniquely different about Indonesia in this time period.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: And Pat, nothing changed there in 2009 from a structural standpoint?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Not that I’m aware of, no.
<A – David O’Reilly>: No.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, folks. Thanks very much.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re welcome.
Operator: Our next question comes from Neil McMahon with Sanford Bernstein.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Hey, Dave, let’s add to the long list saying good luck in the future.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Thank you, Neil.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Just two questions...
<A – David O’Reilly>: Please speak up just a little bit. We are having trouble hearing you, Neil.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay. It’s all the way from the other side of the pond. Just turning to two
questions, one really on Gorgon, if you look at Gorgon and the development of the old LNG plants
that you’ve got going there plus others, what is your sense that these projects will likely be
developed on time, given the fact that so many people are putting a lot of construction capacity into
an area with extremely limited resources and infrastructure? So that’s really the first one.
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I think the good new – well, that’s why I was there in Perth just here a
week or two ago. And I think the good news is that we have the contracts led. The projects are
moving forward – this project’s moving forward. It is first one out of the gate really in that area.
There hasn’t been much new activity there and being first I think it gives me some assurance that
this one is going to move along well. And it’s – by all the experts we’ve looked at, they believe that
this project is best prepared for execution of any major project that they’ve seen. So I’m pretty
confident that this one is out of the gate fast and already working.
And not all – a lot of the work is on Australia but some of it is outside Australia as well, and it’s
using some modulization contracts that are already been led that we fabricated in Korea and other
places. So this I think is a – this is an exemplary project and I don’t – I think the question for the
longer term is one that we’ll have to weigh around some of the other projects as well and that is
ensuring that we phase them in. And that’s one of the reasons that we put Wheatstone behind
Gorgon because we think that the peak – we want to be past the peak of Gorgon and on the down
slope before we pick up Wheatstone. So I think we’ve got a very good plan, an integrated plan to
look at this in a kind of an orderly manner. So I think that’s the answer to your first question. You
had another one?
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Well, just as a follow-up to that, will you be utilizing the same construction
contractors and quarry for Wheatstone and the same as Gorgon?
<A – David O’Reilly>: I think the answer to that question is no. We have – the FEED contract with
Wheatstone is a different contractor than with Gorgon and that’s as far as I’ll go on that one.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay. And just a final quick one from me, given your footprint in Asia, any
comments in terms of overall Asian refining demand – refining products in that part of the world?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Well, I mentioned that I’d just come back from there and I see there’s no
question that there’s a pickup in demand. The China stimulus package is pretty effective and
definitely making an impact on demand. So I think that the Asian refining system will recover
sooner than say North America or Europe and I feel pretty positive about it.
The momentum and the focus there is more than I would have expected. Having been there a year
ago and seen everything come to a stop, it’s quite amazing how they’ve been able to turn that
around. So I feel pretty confident that the outlook for Asia – it’s still going to be sloppy I think in Asia
in 2010 but it should improve sooner than some of the other areas of the world.
<Q – Neil McMahon>: Okay, thanks very much and good luck again.
<A – David O’Reilly>: We’ve got – probably got time for about another one question. We’re
reaching the top of the hour so let me – let’s take another question here.
Operator: Okay, our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Thanks very much. Two quick questions about Gorgon, first just to
clarify, the 40% figure you mentioned on the offtake, does that only pertain to Chevron’s interest or
is that the entire project?
<A – David O’Reilly>: No, that’s our interest only. And as I mentioned, we expect to double that in
the next month or two.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Got it. And then second point, how should we think about reserve
bookings from Gorgon now that you guys hit FID and particularly do you expect any reserve
bookings this year?
<A – David O’Reilly>: Yes, we do. We have hit FID. There will be reserve bookings, and I can’t
obviously say what those will be but this will have a positive impact on our reserve replacement for
the year.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Thanks very much.
<A – David O’Reilly>: You’re very welcome.
David J. O’Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I think we’ve got to wrap it up, folks. I appreciate your interest in the company and thank you for
your questions. And again I want to thank all of you for your good questions and your support
during the year particularly, those of you that have been shareholders for my tenure with the
company. So thank you very much and if there are any further questions please follow up with
Jeanette and the staff. Shawn, thank you for your help and we’re finished.
Operator: Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s third quarter 2009
earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.