Operator: Good morning. Any name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants
are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session
and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference
call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

John S. Watson, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Sean. Welcome to Chevron’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call and webcast. It is
good to be back on the calls. With me today are Pat Yarrington, our CFO and Jeanette Ourada,
General Manager, Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and operating
results for the fourth quarter of 2009. We will refer to the slides that are available on our website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections,
and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.
Turning to slide 3, I’d like to provide a brief summary of our operational performance in 2009. We
had a number of very significant accomplishments during the year. We again set a new record for
safety and are among the best in the industry. We continue to operate with excellence and
increased both production efficiency and refinery reliability.
We grew production by 7% in 2009, reflecting the start-up and ramp up of major capital projects
and strong performance in our base business.
Project execution was, of course, key to these results. Projects that started up between 2007 and
2009, contributed over 450,000 barrels per day of net production in 2009.
Our continued focus on cost management, delivered very positive results, lowering our operating
expenses by 15% compared with 2008. Finally, in the face of a global economic downturn, we
maintained our strategic focus on the key drivers that will ensure growth and superior returns to our
stockholders in the years ahead. This consistency, in my view, in our strategy is one of our great
strengths.
Slide 4 summarizes our strategic accomplishments for 2009. In the upstream, we had another year
of successful exploration with key discoveries in Australia, the United States and Africa. On a
preliminary basis, we estimate that we replaced 112% of our production through net reserve
additions in 2009. Absent price effects, the 2009 reserve replacement ratio was 145%.
We started up three major Chevron operated deep water projects, Tahiti in the Gulf of Mexico,
Frade in Brazil and Tombua-Landana in Angola. There were also production gains from major
capital projects started in 2008 that ramped up to name-plate capacity in 2009. The Tengiz
expansion in Kazakhstan, Agbami in Nigeria and Blind Faith in the Gulf of Mexico all were
significant contributors to our 2009 production growth and will generate value for years to come.
Continuing our progress in the deep water Gulf of Mexico, we entered front-end engineering and
design work on our Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot developments. We also made significant strides in
advancing our gas business. In Australia, we reached a final investment position for Gorgon in
September, a true legacy project for the company and the largest in our history. We have also
signed long term sales and purchase agreements and heads of agreement for about 90% of our
Gorgon equity LNG off-take.
Also in Australia, we entered FEED on our Wheatstone natural gas project in July. Since that time,
we have welcomed equity partners into the project, bringing additional gas supplies and
establishing Wheatstone as an LNG hub. We have also entered into heads of agreement with
buyers to deliver almost 60% of the total LNG off-take from the first two trains.
In Africa, construction continued at our Escravos gas to liquid project in Nigeria and our Angola
LNG project. Both facilities are expected to start up in 2012.
In China, we received government approval for the first stage of the Chuandongbei sour gas
project. And in Vietnam we signed a head of agreement that will allow us to begin front end
engineering and design work for this offshore natural gas development in the Gulf of Thailand.
Looking at our downstream business, refineries ran at strong levels of reliability for the second
consecutive year. And we have cut unplanned unit outages in half over the same time period.
Finally, portfolio rationalizations continued and we successfully completed 13 market exits in 2009.
We received good value for these assets. The exits contribute to lowering costs in capital employed
in the downstream and align with our strategy to focus on markets of competitive strength.
Slide 5 provides a brief overview of our financial performance. The company’s fourth quarter
earnings were 3.1 billion or $1.53 per diluted share. Comparing the fourth quarter 2009 to the same
period a year earlier, our earnings were down 37%. The upstream business benefited from higher
crude oil prices and increased net oil equivalent production while our downstream results fell,
reflecting weaker product margins.

Return on capital employed for the year was 10.6%. The debt ratio at the end of the year was
10.3%. And net debt was below $2 billion, underscoring Chevron’s financial strength and flexibility.
Dividends were $5.3 billion for the year and 2009 marked our 22nd consecutive annual dividend
increase with an annual average growth rate over that period of 7%.
Finally, Chevron’s 2009 TSR of 8.1% was the highest of the U.S. majors. When taking a longer
view, Chevron has held the No. 1 ranking in the peer group for both a three year and five-year
averages and outpaced the S&P 500 return by more than 10% in both comparative periods.
Pat will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Pat?

Patricia E. Yarrington, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President
Thanks, John. My remarks compare the results of fourth quarter 2009 with the third quarter of 2009.
And as a reminder, our earnings release compares fourth quarter ‘09 with the same quarter a year
ago.
Turning now to slide 6, fourth quarter earnings were down 760 million from the third quarter.
Starting from the left side of the chart, higher crude oil and natural gas realizations, as well as
increased production volumes, benefited the company’s worldwide upstream results. Downstream
earnings were sharply lower on poor refining and marketing margins and resulted in a loss for the
fourth quarter. The variance in the Other bar reflects higher corporate charges and lower chemicals
earnings.
On slide 7, our U.S. upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were about 170 million higher than the
third quarter’s results. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by 295
million. Chevron’s average U.S. crude oil realization was up $7 a barrel between consecutive
quarters, about a dollar less than the increase in average spot price of WTI. Natural gas
realizations also increased between quarters, in line with Henry Hub spot prices and represented
about 75 million of the positive variance.
The absence of a settlement gain of certain hurricane insurance claims recognized in the third
quarter resulted in 110 million negative variance between periods. The Other bar here is comprised
of a number of offsetting items.
Turning to slide 8, international upstream earnings were up about 200 million compared with the
third quarter. Higher oil and gas realizations increased earnings by 435 million. Average
realizations for liquids rose 11%, in line with the increase in Brent spot prices. Natural gas
realizations were also higher in the fourth quarter, contributing about 60 million to earnings. Higher
lifting, primarily in Kazakhstan and Australia, benefited earnings by 100 million.
Recall that the third quarter included a net benefit of about 400 million, triggered by the formal
approval of the Gorgon project. The absence of this benefit was partly offset by gains from certain
small equity sales, resulting in a net 300 million variance this period.
The Other bar includes several items and netted to a charge of 38 million for the quarter. The
largest components here were operating expense and tax items which mostly offset.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes
produced from oil sands in Canada. Production increased 76,000 barrels a day, or nearly 3%
between quarters. Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty
contracts by an estimated 12,000 barrels a days.
The external constraints bar shows a benefit of 44,000 barrels a day, largely reflecting a return to
normal operations in Nigeria for the full fourth quarter. Base business production declined roughly
29,000 barrels a day, primarily due to storm-related shut-ins in the Gulf of Mexico and China as well
as normal field declines. And as shown on the green bar, increased production from major capital
projects benefited fourth quarter production by 73,000 barrels a day, largely driven by higher
volumes at TCO and a favorable adjustment related to a deepwater Gulf of Mexico royalty
settlement.
Slide 10 compares full year 2009 OEG production to that of 2008. Production rose 7%, or 174,000
barrels a day. Price impacts from production sharing and variably royalty contracts increased
production by an estimated 55,000 barrels a day. WIT prices, as you know, averaged $62 a barrel
in 2009 versus $100 a barrel in 2008.
For the year, external constraints, including security disruptions in Nigeria, OPEC-related
curtailments early in the year and lower natural gas demand in Asia, essentially offset the volume
metric impact of lower prices. Base business production declined by 130,000 barrels a day. Strong
base business performance limited our decline rate to slightly more than 5%, ahead of the 6 or 7%
guidance we provided earlier.
And finally, in major capital projects, contributed an incremental 305,000 barrels a day to 2009 oil
and gas production, reflecting a ramp up of key 2008 projects and new product – project start-ups
in 2009.
On Slide 11, you see our full year outlook for production in 2010 is 2.73 million barrels a day, 1%
increase over 2009 levels. The outlook does assume a $62 per barrel price range, the same
average price as in 2009, and it does not assume OPEC curtailments, material security or marketrelated impacts. Recognizing the reduced base business investments in 2009, we project base
business declines to average approximately 6%, or 164,000 barrels a day.

While we have increased our planned 2010 base business investments, there is a lag between the
timing on investment and the associate production benefit. In 2010, we will continue to limit North
America natural gas development activities due to current market conditions.
The growth from major capital projects is projected to be 190,000 barrels per day. Now keep in
mind that the smaller percentage growth in 2010 is also a result of accelerated ramp ups that led to
higher than expected production growth in 2009. In other words, growth has been achieved earlier
than planned, which is a good thing.
Turning to slide 12, U.S. downstream earnings fell about 380 million in the fourth quarter; indicator
margins were down sharply, resulting in 170 million negative variance. Refining margins declined,
especially on the West Coast, due to seasonal decline in gasoline demand, high product inventory
levels and rising crude prices.
Lower volumes in the fourth quarter largely reflected planned maintenance at our El Segundo
refinery in California and lowered earnings by 40 million. Operating expenses were 65 million
higher between periods, largely due to the El Segundo plant shutdown and a non-recurring charge
related to a previously announced exit of certain U.S. East Coast markets. Multiple components
made up the Other bar, including lower trading results and unfavorable tax variances.
On slide 13, international downturn earnings decreased about 430 million from the third quarter’s
result. Lower realized margins reduced earnings by 175 million between quarters. This was
particularly evident in the Asia Pacific region where Singapore cracking margins fell by almost 50%.
Timing effects resulted in a 260 million negative variance between periods, in part reflecting higher
price volatility in the quarter. The Timing Effects bar includes inventory and mark-to-market effects
as well as impact of lag deviation contract pricing. The Other bar was a small benefit for the
quarter.
Slide 14 shows that earnings from chemical operations were about 65 million lower in the fourth
quarter. Results for the olefins, aromatics and oronite additives all reflected lower margins. Now
please note that starting in 2010, our chemicals business will be reporting to Mike Wirth and we will
combine the chemical and downstream segments beginning with our first quarter results.
Slide 15 covers all other. Fourth quarter net charges were 418 million, compared to a net 167
million charge in the third quarter. The 250 million increase between quarters is primarily due to
unfavorable variances in tax items and other corporate charges. The all other charges in the fourth
quarter were above our typical guidance range of 250 to 350 million per quarter, though I would
note that the full year results were below guidance.
On slide 16, I’d now like to summarize our cost management efforts. I’ll start first, though, with the
cost efforts in the second quarter. We announced our goal to reduce 2009 operating and SG&A
costs by 10% or $2.5 billion. This target excluded the benefit associated with lower costs of
purchased fuel. We were able to exceed that target and delivered a 15% reduction totaling almost
$4 billion.
All business segments contributed to the reduction and the savings were delivered in a year that
saw our upstream oil and gas production grow by the 7%. About one-third of the reductions were
market related, such as lower transportation expenses. Another third were discreet items, primarily
due to the absence of significant hurricane charges, realized in 2008. And the final third was the
result of deliberate actions taken across the company which lowered expenses in most cost
categories and included portfolio actions, efforts to increase efficiency and reliability, to curtail or
eliminate discretionary spending and to renegotiate contract terms with suppliers. We were very
diligent on every element of our cost structure this year and we’re pleased with this progress in
2009 and expect to see further positive results from our efforts.

Then on slide 17, Capital Spending, total capital spending for 2009 was $22.2 billion, compared
with our budget of 22.8 billion. Upstream spending accounted for 17.1 billion or 77% of the total.
Our cash C&E, which excludes equity share of affiliate outlays, was 20.6 billion.
Our announced capital program for 2010 is $21.6 billion, a 3% decrease compared to 2009 actual
expenditures. Excluding one time concession payments in 2009, our 2010 budget represents an
increase of approximately 15% in upstream spending.
Of the overall 2010 capital program, 80% is for upstream activities, primarily related to the large
multi-year projects, consistent with our upstream growth strategies. These include projects in
Western Australia, the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Africa, and the Gulf of Thailand. Another
16% is earmarked for downstream investments, a reduction of 23% from 2009 levels. The majority
of the 2010 planned downstream investment is related to major projects under construction.
John will now provide some thoughts on 2010. John?

Thanks, Pat. Please turn to slide 18 if you would. As we enter 2010, in the downstream we continue
to see challenged economic conditions. We’re certainly not satisfied with our downstream results in
2009. We are shifting to a simpler and less costly organization to improve returns and remain
competitive in this difficult environment. We intend to cover our efforts in more detail in March at our
regularly scheduled meeting.
In the upstream, we’re on track for start-up on three major capital projects: the Perdido regional
hub in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; the first expansion of the Athabasca oil sands project in
Canada; and the Escravos gas project Phase 3a in Nigeria.
In addition, we expect to sanction four other major capital projects: Papa-Terra in Brazil, which was
announced earlier this week; as well as Tahiti stage 2, Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot in the Gulf of
Mexico.
We have had consistent strategies over time and they have served us well. They are the right
strategies and will keep us competitive now and into the future. Underlying our efforts will be a
continued focus on execution: investing in the right opportunities; completing our projects on time
and on budget; ensuring safe and reliable operations; effectively applying technology’ and
maintaining vigilance on our cost structure.
In summary, rewarding our stockholders, continuing our disciplined growth and maintaining our
financial strength are objectives we will continue to pursue in 2010 and beyond. I look toward to
further discussing our future plans at our Security Analysts meeting on March 9 in New York City.
Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Kessler, with
Simmons & Company.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Good morning, everyone; a couple unrelated questions for me. The first is,
wondered if you can give some more color around your reserve replacement for 2009? Sounds like
a good figure all in. I’m wondering how much, specifically, might have come from oil sands mining,
bookings or reclassifications? I seem to recall you being at zero on the footnoted reserves for
mining as of 2008, so wondering did you add back that 400 million barrels there and reclassify
them? And then also on Gorgon.
Unrelated to that, on this downstream restructuring that you’re moving through, I’m wondering if the
reporter out in California kind of got over skis in suggesting that Richmond was going to close in an
absolute sense. Is that – did he do so? And what, if any, refinery closures or divestments might you
be contemplating?
<A – John Watson>: Sure, Robert. Thanks. On reserves your memory is good. We didn’t have
reserves booked for the Athabasca oil sands project in 2008 and so we did have an initial booking
there. That’s some 460 million barrels. And the Gorgon booking is a little bit over 700 million
barrels. You’d expect as it went to FID that, of course, that we would bring in barrels for that.
So our overall booking, with other additions and price revisions, was 112%. I’ll emphasize that this
was one – it’s preliminary and so it’s still being finalized. But I would also mention that without the
price revisions we would have been at about 145%. So we think it was a good year.
With respect to your second question on the downstream and prospective closures of refineries, it’s
quite premature to talk about closing refineries. I said earlier that we are certainly disappointed with
the results in the downstream. Industry conditions are very tough right now and we lost money in
both the U.S. and our international downstream business, which I expect is a pattern for the
industry. So those results were weak. So we are on a path to improve those results.
Now, we’re building on a position of some strength in the reliability end of our business at the
refineries and based on the competitive refinery stacks that we look at, our refineries are quite
competitive. But they need to stay that way and these conditions are very difficult. So we are taking
a look at all our downstream operations and I expect you’ll see some changes in organization going
forward; you’ll see some changes in costs and an emphasis on maintaining some of the operational
momentum but doing it at lower cost.
Most of our divestitures up to now have focused primarily on the marketing side of the business.
You’ve seen us continue to rationalize markets that are distant from our key supply points but I
wouldn’t want to advertise any particular refinery closures that we’re contemplating at this time.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Okay. Thanks for the color, John.
<A – John Watson>: Thanks.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI.
<A – John Watson>: Hi, Doug. Good morning.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: John, I wanted to ask another question on refining, too. And this is more
of a strategic, bigger picture question I think, and it really involves how you envision placement of
your global refining business, your [inaudible] global refining business in the overall mix; meaning,
pre-Texaco and even earlier, you guys were historically much heavier in the upstream than the
downstream on an absolute basis and relative to the peers. And this mix has even shifted further
during the past decade, as you know; and so the question becomes, will this shift – is it likely to
continue towards the upstream as it has in the past? And is it – is the thinking here as profound as
considering recharacterization of entire regions, maybe, to a less-strategic category? Or is it too
early to know yet?
<A – John Watson>: Well, Doug, I think your observations are right about how we viewed the
business historically. If I reflect back a decade or more we have had a view that the upstream
business over time provides better returns.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Sure.
<A – John Watson>: Now part of that is philosophical on – the upstream business has a decline
curve.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Yes.
<A – John Watson>: And there’s always the need to replace volumes behind it, and so market
conditions tend to correct themselves quickly. In the downstream of course, particularly the refining
business, you need demand growth. And where you don’t have demand growth, or you see
overbuilding, it takes more time to rationalize that. And we’re in one of those periods right now
when the conditions are difficult on the refining side.

With that overall view and reflecting on the particular individual strengths that we have in our
company, we have favored upstream investments for more than the last decade. And that has been
a pattern that I think you will see continuing going forward. As we preferentially invest in the
upstream, we’ll become more weighted to that business.
What I would tell you, though, about the downstream are several points. One, over the course of
the cycle we think the downstream can earn good returns, certainly in excess of 10%, and we
expect to be in an excess of 10% over the course of the cycle. The second and probably more
subtle aspect of the downstream business is the value that integration of that business brings to us.
If you look at plants like the GTL plant in Nigeria, upgraders in Hamaka, even the Tengiz plant in
Kazakhstan, those plants wouldn’t operate without a lot of downstream expertise, because as you
know they look a whole lot like refineries.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Yes.
<A – John Watson>: And so one, we have that expertise. We also have the expertise that our
trading and supply people bring as, increasingly, we’re producing disadvantaged crudes, or crudes
that need a market and facilities that can get full value out of the raw material. And so for a number
of reasons, maybe a long answer here, for a number of reasons, I think we’ll be in the downstream
business going forward but we’re going be very measured about where that footprint is.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Okay. Thanks, for the elaboration and I think I get the message.
<A – John Watson>: Okay. Good. Thank you.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: You’re welcome.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Banc of America.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thank you. Good morning. John, it’s good to hear you back on the call.
<A – John Watson>: Thank you.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: I’m afraid I’m going to flog this horse a little bit more. I actually have two
questions if I can squeeze them in. First of all, just generally on the downstream, I think you’ve
been pretty clear about where you’re going with this, but obviously you’ve got a number of plants,
and I know you don’t want to be too specific, but you have a number of fairly small plants and
minority interests and so on. It’s hard to imagine that those are bringing the big strategic benefits
that you just described. So could you kind of just generally characterize where you see the focus on
this restructuring effort moving?
And my second question is, I kind of hate to bring this up, but your competitor obviously has – your
large competitor here in the U.S. has made a fairly big bet in U.S. gas. Obviously, you’ve just taken
over the helm here, and I’m just wondering where your head is in terms of longer-term
investments? U.S. gas market on the whole? And if you were prepared to offer any comments on
how you see Chevron’s role in future consolidation I would appreciate that as well. Thank you.
<A – John Watson>: Sure. Those are both fair questions. First, with respect to some of the joint
venture refineries that we have, the way our business is structured, our refineries outside the
United States, our large facilities, are predominantly held through joint ventures. So whether it’s GS
Caltex or a refinery in Thailand or a refinery in Singapore, those are held through joint ventures as
well as our interest in Caltex Australia. So our focus is really on keeping the facilities competitive.

In the United States, of course, and our small refinery in Canada, those are 100% owned refineries.
So the structure of the ownership isn’t necessarily the issue. It’s whether the facility can be
competitive. And we think our major facilities are competitive. And they have been very reliable,
which as you know, has been our focus over time. I think the key is making sure that we get that
reliability at the right cost. And so we’ll be looking to be sure that we can maintain the reliability, but
do it at a lower cost.
Our refineries are competitive on a net cash margin but we think we can improve them further. And
a lot of the effort that we’re focusing on is continued work in the marketing area and our interface at
the customer level and through the delivery chain from the refinery to the ultimate customer. Mike
Wirth will talk a lot more about this at our meeting in March, as we do have plans and work
underway that we think on a stand-alone basis will improve our results regardless of what happens
to margins.
As far as the U.S. gas business goes, certainly I’m aware of the big acquisition that our major
competitor made in the U.S., and I would start by telling you that we do have a position in shales
and tight gases. We have a presence in the Piceance. We have a nice presence in the Haynesville.
We picked up acreage recently in Canada and nearly a million acres in Poland. So we do have a
presence in the shales.
But frankly, we’ve been in a position where we have a very strong portfolio worldwide and we can
see growth out through the rest of this decade. And so we haven’t been particularly needy, if you
will, to do a large transaction. And so we haven’t felt that the opportunities that are out there
compete with other things that we have in our portfolio.
Now, you know me and you know us pretty well. And we have – we are always screening the
opportunities in the upstream business. It’s a resource business and we’re in the business of
acquiring leases, individual assets and companies and have demonstrated that we’re willing to do
so when the conditions are right. We just haven’t felt that they’re right in the shales or otherwise in
the very recent past.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: John, thanks; a very full answer. Thank you.
<A – John Watson>: Sure.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. Hey, John, welcome back.
<A – John Watson>: Thanks, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Maybe it’s little bit of the curve ball; I have two questions. One, it’s not just for
certain, but if I look at the industry I think there’s a big debate among the investors talking about the
big guys like you, Exxon or BP or other companies; is it possible on a sustainable basis that to grow
the resource and the production base organically? Don’t know that you will be able to comment that
whether you actually think the resource is not an issue, that you do have the capability or that the
opportunity you can see in the industry, for you guys, and not just for you guys but for the industry
to grow? Or will that acquisition, be unavoidable in that for the industry, not necessarily for certain
but for the industry, become a bigger piece of the pie.
And secondly, that if we look at your production guidance in 2010, always that there’s a risk and
opportunity and wondering that, John, if you will be able to maybe help us understand what is the
major area of the potential upside and the potential downside risks? Thank you.

<A – John Watson>: Okay. Thanks, Paul. I think I’m going to answer yes to both parts of your first
question, at least for Chevron. Ultimately, everyone has to continue to add resources to the queue
going forward. And so over time, every company has to add either exploration acreage, companies,
or otherwise and so I think longer-term, we always have to be looking for new opportunities.
I think when you look a little bit shorter term we can look out for the better part of this decade and
see growth in our portfolio. And so we feel very good about the queue that we have. And we’ll give
you a little more information about that as George gives his run-through in March on some of the
specifics of our projects. But we have a good queue going out over the course of this decade.
I think the upside in the near term and the opportunity over time is how rapid and quickly we can
develop and advance new technologies so that we can increase recoveries. For example, if you
look in the San Joaquin Valley, initial recoveries there were 10 or 20% of oil in place. Now at Kern
River and other fields we’re nearing 70%. No one would have thought that and, of course, we’re a
leader in steam technology. The ability to add to the portfolio going forward is going be a function of
having an offering that host governments value. And I think our technology in seismic imaging,
reservoir management, deepwater developments are highly valued, including sulfur handling. And I
think we have excellent relationships in those – with those host governments going forward. That’s
helped us recently in China and the PNZ.
So I think my answer to your question is we have some length in our portfolio with the assets that
we have, but we’re going to need to capture new opportunities either through new acreage or
through the acquisition side over time.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. And how about 2010 production guidance, any major area of potential
upside or major area of potential risk we need to see for the downside or need to monitor for the
downside?
<A – John Watson>: Well, one of the challenging areas for us to forecast is in the base – the base
business area. For example last year, initially George gave guidance of about a 7% decline and we
over-achieved last year. We only had a 5% decline.
This year, because we consciously cut back some of our spending in base business in 2009, we’ve
sort of upped that implicit decline in the numbers that we’ve given you to about 6%. And so
depending upon how rapid the declines are or not in that base business, that number could be a
little bit different.
There’s also a question of timing of some of the major capital projects that we’ve got. We don’t
have a large number coming on right now. We’ve got Perdido and the Athabasca Oil Sands Project,
but certainly the timing of major capital project ramp-ups are there. And then, of course, you always
have the issue of price effects, security and market conditions for demand for gas in Asia and other
markets. So those would be the principal areas that I would highlight as, you know, both on the up
and down side.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: That’s great. John, can I just breeze in one quick one for Pat in terms of the
cost reduction. Pat, for the next two years, what is the potential target that you guys may have and
from what major areas? Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, Paul. We have a – we don’t have a distinct target that we’re
going to hand out at this particular point in time. But we do feel good about where we have closed
out ‘09. And if you look forward and think about what’s likely to be sustained or not, I’ll take you
through each of those.

Number one, from a self-help standpoint we said about a third of the reduction that we’d this year
was self help. Going forward, we still are aggressively looking for additional, sustained ways to
continue to get our cost structure down. In the downstream sector, as you can tell, that’s an
absolute must have to get our downstream cost structure to an affordable level so highly focused
there. We’ve shown you charts in the past, too, on upstream, how competitive the overall upstream
cost structure is. We want to retain that competitive ranking. So cost is a very important part of our
drivers going forward.
Secondly, on the market-related activities, I would say that there is still a tremendous amount of
evidence out there where there is surplus capacity in some of those cost categories that would
suggest that cost increases are not likely. And I will just take you to the transportation sectors for
example. There’s an awful lot of surplus capacity out there. And even though you have a higher
energy base, we’re not seeing a lot of those costs being driven through into higher transportation
costs for us.
And then finally, we talked last year about the contract renegotiations that we had done through the
early part of the year. Many of those new contract terms only came into place part way through
2009 and they carry on into 2010 and some of them even have longer terms than that. So we’re
very positive about being able to sustain and even improve on our cost structure going forward.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul – or Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: Thank you. John, just a couple upstream questions. One of your smaller
competitors has had some interesting success in California, a variety of different exploration plays.
You are obviously a large California producer; just wondering if you see kind of upside to California
beyond the sort of EOR enhancement stuff you’ve been doing? Are there new concepts you’re
considering on your large acreage position?
And then unrelatedly, there’s been talk again about Kazakhstan, looking at tax terms and contract
terms. I was wondering if you could either confirm or deny that they are looking to potentially
change any of the tax terms for your Tengiz contract. Thank you.
<Q – John Watson>: Arjun, that’s an interesting concept talking about what’s going on in Southern
California. It doesn’t get a great deal of attention. I assume you’re talking about some of the work
that’s going on around Elk Hills. And we are – we are a participant there. We do have about a 20%
interest. So we are there. And in general, the declines that we’ve seen in that business, obviously
it’s a mature business, but the declines we’ve seen have been limited. And they’ve been limited
because we’ve been pretty clever in how we apply steam. It’s one of the things that we do very well
and we do it at low cost.
But we also have Diadamite and other holdings down there that have some promise for the future.
So California is a nice area for us. In the upstream we, of course, have environmental constraints
that we work through. But it’s an encouraging business for us. And maybe we’ll get George to give
you a little bit further update when we get to – when we get to March.
In terms of Kazakhstan, there’s a general environment out there where host governments are
making sure that they feel they’re getting full value out of the contracts and resources that they
hold. I would tell you that our relationship in Kazakhstan has always been excellent. And we have a
very strong contract there and have done a good job of living up to that contract.
In my recent visit and discussions with President Nazarbayev, he was very pleased with the
performance of Chevron and the Tengiz in particular and said that to me directly. So I feel good
about our relationship and confident we can work through whatever issues may surface there and
in virtually every other area where we operate.

<Q – Arjun Murti>: That’s great; if I can just have a quick follow-up on the balance sheet. You all
have run a, essentially net debt free balance sheet since I think ‘04, so it’s been five or six years. It
obviously has served you all well during these challenging economic times. Now that you’re CEO,
John, any change to running such a pristine balance sheet? I’m sure you want to maintain balance
sheet strength. But is net debt free the right number for you or some different number better or
worse? Thank you.
<A – John Watson>: Well, Arjun, within a range, we’re going to keep some capacity on our
balance sheet. And frankly we’re heading into a period where we have – we’re making some big
bets on some of our major capital projects with Gorgon and Wheatstone, and we want to be sure of
course that we can continue to obviously pay our dividend and increase it as the pattern of earnings
in cash flow permit. And continue to fund these key projects as we go forward.
Just like this last year when we saw prices dip, we want to be able to keep the momentum in our
business and not have to stop and start operations rapidly. So I think you’ll continue to see us keep
some capacity on our balance sheet, though I won’t tell you that a specific number other than we do
want to maintain our AA credit rating that we have out there. So I wouldn’t look for any change in
terms of how we manage our balance sheet.
<Q – Arjun Murti>: That’s great. Thank you very much.
<A – John Watson>: Sure. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with Benchmark.
<A – John Watson>: Hi, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Folks, good morning; had a couple of specific things and then one more
general one. Is it accurate, the report that you have opted not to exercise your preemption rights
regarding the Jack field and Jack interest in Devon’s sale to Merisk?
Secondly, I was hoping that you might be able to, regarding Kazakhstan, John, give us an idea
given some of the uncertainties which were referenced in a prior question, will you proceed with the
expansion project that you’ve been evaluating in the environment as it stands currently?

The more general question relates to LNG contracting. You folks have obviously been very active
out there in the market. And I was wondering if at least qualitatively, you could talk about what
kinds of changes in contracts you are seeing as it relates either to duration, structure or price
formulas?
<A – John Watson>: Sure, Mark. Those are all the good questions. On the first one, we have
exercised our preemptive right around St. Malo and not for Jack. And those – that’s primarily
around aligning our equity interests in those two opportunities. I won’t say a lot more about the
commercial aspects of those, but the answer to your question is basically, yes on St. Malo, no on
Jack.
In terms of a Tengiz expansion, we’re optimistic that we’ll be able to move forward with that project
but we have – and we have, for example, settled on some design concepts, et cetera. We do have
more work to do on the commercial side and on the transportation side and that work is underway.
But I would tell you I’m optimistic and see no reason that we won’t move ahead with that project.
But we’re not at FID today so we have to work through the remaining issues.

In terms of the LNG market, we are very pleased with what we’ve been able to accomplish at both
Gorgon and Wheatstone and we highlighted that in our press release. In terms of the specific
characteristics, the way I would describe it, we, it’s obviously competitive information but I would
say, number one, we’re producing gas at prices that look a lot like oil. We’ve got high slopes on
these contracts and we’ve got good terms with some of the best buyers in the world.
The history with our Japanese and Korean partners has been excellent over time in our
relationships on the northwest shelf. And we think that these are among the strongest and best and
sophisticated buyers of LNG and we’ve signed them at good terms that underpin the project. So we
haven’t seen – there’s been speculation about the condition of the worldwide LNG market, but from
our – certainly our recent experience it’s been very good for those two projects.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay John. Thanks very much.
<A – John Watson>: Okay, Mark.
Operator: Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Thank you; maybe one more on the production profile. John, appreciate
the comments about growth through the end of the decade. And clearly 2014 plus with Gorgon,
Wheatstone and perhaps Lower Teriary it does have quite a bit of visibility. How should we think
about the interim period between 2010 through 2013? Is that going to be more or less a flattish
environment?
<A – John Watson>: You know, Jason, what I’d prefer to do, and I’m going to punt just a little bit.
We wanted to give you some guidance on 2010. And your observation about middle of the decade
and Gorgon and Wheatstone is accurate. What I’d like to do is maybe defer until March where we’ll
give you a little longer – a little more complete look at both the interim period and what we see
coming project by project, and in a lot more detailed fashion rather than treat that today. So if you’ll
hold with me until March, we’ll be happy to give you more information.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Fair enough. Maybe one more if I could then.
<A – John Watson>: Okay.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Three more successes during the quarter in Australia, obviously a great
drilling environment there. Can you talk about the volumetric objectives that – what you’re drilling in
Australia right now? Are these TCF plus type structures and maybe give an update on the overall
resource base that you believe you have in the Greater Gorgon area at this point?
<A – John Watson>: I’ll say yes and no. We have announced some five discoveries this year in
Australia and I would say, in an overall sense, the size of these of discoveries have been a little bit
smaller than some of the very large ones in the past, but they’ve been nice additions and will
augment the supply that we have for both Gorgon and Wheatstone. And in fact, what you’ll see
from George when he talks a little bit more about this, as we continue to accumulate volumes, it not
only raises confidence in the existing project where we have ample resource but it also starts to
give us volumes that will help us underpin expansions there.
As you know, we have ambitions to produce more ultimately at Gorgon, subject to regulatory and
permitting considerations over time. And Wheatstone is a hub, which we’ll be starting at two trains
and will have the capacity to bring in actually several more trains over time. So these discoveries
really do underpin some of that future growth.
In terms of our aggregate gas resources, we’ve talked in terms of 70 TCF in the Asia Pacific region.
So we have a lot of gas in that area. And we’ll give you a little more granular information on that in
March.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Okay. Thank you, John.
<A – John Watson>: Sure.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi, John and Pat. Welcome back, John.
<A – John Watson>: Thanks, Paul.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Pat, you did address this in your comments but if you could just remind me,
going back to the volume outlook for 2010, what did you say about the external constraints that you
have or haven’t baked in? I’m trying to get to what the range of outcomes could be there,
particularly with [inaudible] back in Nigeria,obviously.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. We said that the outlook does not assume any OPEC
curtailments or security constraints or even market constraints.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Fair enough. And if I look backwards, it feels like the range of outcome there,
based on what you’re showing for what happened in ‘09, is about, let’s say, 100,000 barrels a day
either way, if we combine all of them together?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well, I mean, those are all very circumstantial elements and I’d hate to
– I’ll let you make your own forecast going forward about each and every one of those, frankly.
That’s why we said we didn’t put it in.
<A – John Watson>: Predicting production plus or minus one or 2% is, as my upstream friends tell
me, is a very tough business given all the factors out there. But there is a range around them to be
sure, Paul.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: I’ve got you. Then if we just look at Q1 of ‘10 to-date, what is the size of that
impact in Nigeria and OPEC right now?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We have about 20,000 barrels a day shut in for Nigeria.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: OPEC then?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Nothing.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Zero. Okay. Got it. The dreaded question. Could you just update us on your
best guesstimate of what’s happening in Ecuador and any headline risk around that? Thank you.
<A – John Watson>: Sure. Well, Paul, as you know we’ve made very significant disclosures and I
know you’ve read the material that we have online. I guess what I would tell you is the court in
Ecuador appears to be headed toward a verdict. I’m not going to predict that, but based on the
pattern in the courts there and the systematic reduction in the application of rule of law, there could
be an adverse verdict. And, if so, we’ll vigorously defend ourselves, not only in Ecuador but in the
United States or anywhere else that they might choose to go to seek enforcement.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah. I was really thinking if I look back a year now, we were looking for, I
think way back, for a judgment around October of last year. Do you have any sense for when this
might finalize?
<A – John Watson>: Well, I think people were looking for a verdict around that time. And then they
had a little problem with the judge, as you may recall, who was shown to not be impartial and was
captured on video. And he had to be replaced and so there’s a new judge there and I’m not going
to predict when he might produce a verdict and what that verdict might be.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Fair enough, John. I’ll leave it there. Thank you.

<A – John Watson>: Okay. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Hi, thanks for taking my question. First, on your CapEx, can you give us
a sense of the CapEx curve for Gorgon, for example how much you might spend there in 2010?
<A – John Watson>: Sure. Gorgon and Wheatstone spending for 2010 will be about $3.5 billion
and so it’s a sizable chunk of our capital spending, both in 2010 and through to the middle of the
decade.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: And just to refresh, have you given your total CapEx estimate for the
overall project and how have they evolved as you’ve completed FID?
<A – John Watson>: Yeah. The number that we’ve given for Gorgon for the 100% project amount
has been $37 billion, U.S., and that’s still the number. Interestingly enough, we’ve placed a
considerable number of contracts against that and so far, it seems to be right on track. Of course,
the numbers can change a little bit as currencies move over time. But that project, we are very
pleased with. We had some outsiders, an outside agency, that looks at major capital projects and
they’ve indicated that they feel that Gorgon is the best prepared mega-project they’ve ever seen.
And so we’re very encouraged at where that’s heading. But we’re going be very vigilant on that
project. We, of course, have to get it right at that level of spend.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: That’s helpful; and just a quick downstream question, finally. Can you
give us any thoughts on what you are seeing on the import front in your West Coast markets?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: You know, frankly, because of the absolutely dismal conditions in the
West Coast, imports have found another place to go because the margins just haven’t been here. I
mean, we’re heavily oversupplied on the product side, gasoline inventories above the five-year
averages; margins very depressed and actually continue to be so on the West Coast here through
the early part of January. So I don’t think imports are finding a welcome home here.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Thanks. That’s helpful. Thanks, guys.
<A – John Watson>: Okay. I think we’ve got one more question.
Operator: Our final question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thanks for taking the follow-up. John, every management has somewhat of a
different philosophy, and that I know you worked closely with O’Reilly before. But from your
standpoint, is there any major change in the – how you – the top 100 management, their
performance and compensation is being reviewed or being calculated? Or what is the most
important driver under your administration? Thank you.
<A – John Watson>: Well, in terms of compensation in management, I’ve had the good fortune to
actually work very directly with everyone on our management committee. And we have a very
strong group of people and I feel very fortunate to have a great team around me both at a very
senior level and down through the organization. And we’ve had a long standing set of
compensation practices that I think provide the right types of incentive and motivation.

My priorities right now, Paul, one, as I indicated in my remarks, you should see a great deal of
strategic continuity. The strategies that we have in place have served us very well. If I could
describe my emphasis early on, it would be ramping it up in terms of our focus on execution in the
business and it’s not sexy stuff. It’s very direct things around capital stewardship, continuing our
reliability efforts, systematic looks at cost. So that is certainly number one.
I would tell you that I’ve talked internally a lot about people in the organization. We have a great
deep of depth. The industry is going through a crew change, if you will, over the course of the next
decade and we’re well prepared for that. But we need to be sure that we’re developing our people
appropriately and making sure that the younger folks that we’ve been hiring over the course of this
decade are going be well prepared to take jobs.
And then, the third thing that I’ve talked about with our employees is growth going forward.
Execution, of course, is part of delivering that growth in the near term, but maintaining our edge on
key technologies is something that I’ll be emphasizing, particularly around seismic imaging,
reservoir management and drilling where we’re very good and a leader today and need to continue
that.
And then capturing new opportunities; I think our business model is the best in the industry where
we have delegated authority and strong leaders in country. And we need to take advantage of that
with our overall capabilities to continue to add to the portfolio and deliver growth. So those are the
things that I’m emphasizing with our organization, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Great. Thank you.

John S. Watson, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
And I think with that, that concludes our remarks. I’d like to thank all the analysts for their good
questions. I’ll just remind you we’ll come back and give you a lot more detail in March and we’ll look
forward to seeing you at our major meeting then. Thank you.
Operator: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s Fourth Quarter 2009
Earnings Conference Call. You may now disconnect.