Operator: Good morning. My name is Shawn and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s First Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I will
now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning. Thanks, Shawn, very much.
Welcome to Chevron’s First Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. Jeanette Ourada,
General Manager, Investor Relations, is on the call with me.
Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2010. We’ll
refer to the slides that are available on Chevron’s Web site. Before we get started, please be
reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking
statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s first quarter earnings
were $4.6 billion or $2.27 per diluted share. Our first quarter 2010 earnings increased about 150%
compared with the first quarter of 2009.
Our Upstream business benefited from higher crude oil prices and higher production. Net oil
equivalent production was up about 5% from a year ago, due mainly to the ramp-up of major capital
projects. Downstream earnings were lower, reflecting the absence of 2009 gains on asset sales, as
well as 2010 charges related to previously announced employee reductions.
First quarter 2010 earnings rose 48% compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, which Jeanette will
discuss shortly in more detail. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about
13%. The debt ratio dropped below 10% at the end of the quarter. And finally, we announced on
Wednesday that Chevron’s Board of Directors approved a $0.04 per share or 5.9% increase in the
common stock quarterly dividend. This follows only 9 months after the previous quarterly increase,
which was in the third quarter of 2009.
Turning to Slide Four. I’ll now compare results of first quarter 2010 with the fourth quarter of 2009.
As a reminder, our earnings release compares first quarter 2010 with the same quarter a year ago.
First quarter earnings were about 1.5 billion higher than the fourth quarter. Higher crude oil and
natural gas realization, as well as lower operating expenses, benefited the company’s worldwide
upstream results.
Downstream earnings were also higher, mostly the result of improved refining margins across all
regions and the absence of unfavorable fourth quarter inventory effects. The variance in the Other
bar reflects lower corporate charges. Earnings in first quarter included charges of 175 million
associated with employee reductions in the Downstream businesses and corporate staff.
As I alluded to in our fourth quarter earnings call, we have done some resegmentation of reported
earnings, and I’d like to go through those changes with you now. Starting this year, both our
Chemicals businesses, meaning Oronite additives and our Chevron Phillips chemicals joint venture,
report to Mike Wirth. Their performance results are now included in the Downstream business
segment.

In addition, certain Upstream enabling operations, primarily the Escravos gas-to-liquids project and
major international export pipelines, have been reclassified from the Downstream segment to the
Upstream segment. These Upstream-enabling assets are fundamental to the success and
economics of their related Upstream operations. In our judgment, the revised segmentation more
appropriately aligns current and future capital allocation decisions with segment performance
results and management oversight responsibilities within the company. Prior-period information has
been conformed accordingly, and for transparency, we have footnoted the slides for each impacted
segment to provide earnings for the comparable periods using the previous reporting methodology.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons for each of the business segments.
Jeanette?

Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Pat.
On Slide 5, our U.S. Upstream earnings for the first quarter were 90 million higher than the fourth
quarter’s results.

Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by 175 million. Chevron’s average
U.S. crude oil realization was up about $3 per barrel between consecutive quarters, slightly more
than the increase in the average spot price of West Texas Intermediate. Natural gas realizations
increased 25% between quarters, in line with Henry Hub spot prices, and represented about half of
the positive variance.
Lower production volumes decreased earnings by 80 million between periods. This was primarily
due to the absence of a favorable royalty settlement recognized in the prior quarter. The other bar
is comprised of a number of offsetting items.
Turning to Slide 6, international upstream earnings were up about 470 million compared with the
fourth quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by 145 million. Average
realizations for liquids rose 2%, in line with the increase in Brent spot prices. Natural gas
realizations were also higher in the first quarter, contributing about 100 million to earnings. This was
in part due to retroactive price settlements on long-term natural gas contracts.
Operating expenses were down 215 million from the fourth quarter. The reduction in OpEx reflects
small reductions across multiple categories and operations. The Other bar represents an increase
of 113 million and includes various unrelated components, the largest being a favorable variance in
tax items.
Slide 7 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron’s worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production remained strong in the first quarter, and increased 5,000 barrels per day. Higher prices
reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts by an estimated 5,000
barrels per day. WTI prices averaged $79 per barrel in the first quarter versus $76 per barrel in the
fourth quarter.
For the first quarter, each dollar increase in WTI resulted in a 1,800-barrel-per-day volume
reduction. This is in line with the 2009 average rate of roughly 1,500 barrels per day per dollar
change in WTI.
Base business production decreased 1% or roughly 27,000 barrels per day between quarters. Our
sustained focus on reliability and system optimization has yielded favorable gains and minimized
declines to date.

In addition, as shown in the green bar, incremental production for major capital projects benefited
first quarter production by 37,000 barrels per day. Primary drivers were ongoing debottlenecking
efforts at Tengiz in Kazakhstan and the continued ramp-up of major capital projects, most
noticeably at Frade in Brazil and Tombua-Landana and Mafumeira Norte in Angola, where new
production wells came online.
At this time, it is too early to update our full-year production outlook of 2.73 million barrels per day.
We have several major turnarounds scheduled for the second and third quarters, and storm effects
may come into play later in the year. We are very pleased with the first quarter production levels,
and intend to provide another update at the second quarter earnings call.
Turning to Slide 8, U.S. downstream results increased more than 400 million in the first quarter as
market conditions improved and our refineries ran well. Indicator margins were up, resulting in a
115 million positive variance. Refining margins strengthened from depressed fourth quarter levels
in both the Gulf Coast and West Coast, with Gulf Coast margins increasing almost 50% between
periods. Heavy refinery maintenance contributed to the improvement in the quarter.
Operating expenses were 145 million lower between periods, in part due to the absence of
expenses associated with the fourth quarter planned shutdown at the El Segundo Refinery and the
non-recurring charge recorded in the fourth quarter related to the exit of certain U.S. East Coast
markets. We recorded a 50 million severance charge in the first quarter related to previously
announced employee reductions.

Chemicals results were 60 million higher, mainly due to improved margins for olefins and
aromatics. Multiple components made up the other bar, including favorable tax and trading
variances and a small asset sale gain.
On Slide 9, international downstream operations also improved significantly, increasing by about
450 million from the fourth quarter’s results. Higher realized margins improved earnings by 345
million between quarters. This was particularly evident in the Asia Pacific region, where Singapore
cracking margins rose by almost 160%. As in the U.S., we recorded a severance charge of 100
million related to previously announced work force reductions for our international operations.
Timing effects resulted in 170 million positive variance between quarters, primarily due to the
absence of negative inventory effects recognized in the fourth quarter. The other bar was a small
net benefit for the quarter, reflecting lower operating expense and higher shipping and chemical
results. Partially offsetting were unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Slide 10 covers all other. First quarter net charges were 368 million compared to a net 418 million
charge in the fourth quarter. A 50 million decrease between quarters is mostly due to favorable
variances in tax items and other corporate charges. A 25 million severance charge related to work
force reductions was recognized in the first quarter.
Our quarterly guidance range of 250 to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still
appropriate going forward.
Pat will now summarize our operational and strategic progress. Pat?

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Okay, turning now to Slide 11, let’s start with our operational performance so far in 2010, where
we’ve had excellent performance in safety, reliability and production efficiency.

Following up on a record year of safety, we’re off to an even better start here in 2010. Our refinery
network continued to operate reliably, and upstream production efficiency continued to climb, as
evidenced by our strong production volume.
Also, our diligence in cost management is continuing to yield positive results. Excluding one-time
employee severance charges recognized in the first quarter, operating and SG&A expenses were
flat between comparable year-to-date periods, sustaining the gains that we realized in 2009. This is
against a backdrop of a 5% production increase and the doubling of crude prices across the
comparable first quarter periods. We’re pleased with results from our ongoing cost management
efforts.
In the upstream, Perdido reached first oil at the end of March. This is the first commercial
production from the lower tertiary trend in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Full facility capacity is
130,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In March, we announced that the Discoverer Inspiration, an ultra deepwater drill ship, commenced
operations in the Gulf of Mexico. This is the second state of the art vessel commissioned by
Chevron in the last year. Both vessels are designed to Chevron’s specifications and will work on a
strong queue of deepwater opportunities.

Also in the Gulf of Mexico, we were the apparent successful bidder in a recent lease sale capturing
19 blocks in the deepwater and 27 blocks in the shelf. Selectively growing our leading position in
this very important basin will help advance our robust portfolio of projects.
In the downstream, we continued to progress our restructuring plans. Our new organizational
structure has been finalized, and we’re in the process of filling key positions. We’re on track to
achieve our 2010 targeted year-end work force reduction of 2,000 employees. We’re also on
schedule to complete the previously announced U.S. East Coast market exit. Other announced
market reviews are underway, and we’ll provide further updates as appropriate.
And finally, we generated very strong cash flow in the quarter, totaling $2.5 billion after paying the
dividend and funding our capital program. Cash generation from the major capital projects started
up in the last 2 years is proving to be very robust. In addition, based on preliminary results, our
upstream portfolio’s earnings per barrel continued to outpace our competitors, giving us the leading
position among our peer group for the last 3 quarters, and the gap has widened here in 2010.
At the end of the quarter, net debt is once again negative as our cash balances exceed our debt
levels. Net debt is back to year-end 2008 levels. And since 2008, we have grown upstream
volumes by an impressive 10%. This growth was self-funded, and we simultaneously weathered
the low point in the commodity cycle while also growing our dividend.
We’re executing our strategies well, and they’re paying off. And it’s our intention to – and we are
confident that we can – maintain this strong performance momentum.
So that concludes our prepared remarks, and I’d now like to open it up for your questions. Shawn,
please open up the line. Thank you.

Operator: [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Good morning, Pat and Jeanette.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: So today, there’s commentary regarding a ban on drilling in new areas in
the United States, although it’s not really clear to me exactly what that means. And on this point
with the Chevron being one of more proficient explorers in the Gulf in recent years, and I’m sure
pretty close to the BP situation, I wanted to see if you could provide any insight into this
information? That is, if you have any, and how it changes your exploration plan if at all.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. As you know, this is breaking news. And let me just say that first
of all, our operations in the Gulf to date have not been impacted by this incident.
We do see the press releases of the media reports this morning that say that existing lease sales
that are currently planned will go ahead. We have no information to the contrary. We haven’t heard
anything kind of yes or no on that.

<Q – Doug Terreson>: Okay.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We’re certain there will be a full investigation, and that a root cause
analysis will be done, and that it will be widely shared. And beyond that, we’re not really in a
position to go much further with that.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Okay. I wasn’t sure either way.
One more question. You guys have obviously done a really good job on cost productivity during the
past couple of years. I think your operating expenses were lower by 15% last year alone. And on
this point, on Slide 8, you guys talk about how – well, it appears as if you may have captured
around 1/3 of the $400 million in non-fuel savings in refining that you talked about at the analyst
meeting.
So my question is whether or not this is the correct way to think about it, or whether – after
normalizing for El Segundo and the one other item that I think Jeanette mentioned – that progress
on the cost objective is different. So can you provide color on this item? Is this the correct way to
think about the objective?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Doug, I think a big piece of improvement you see is we’re coming off a
high fourth quarter expense range. So I wouldn’t – that’s more, I think, activity driven.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Okay.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: I wouldn’t contribute it to the refining goals that we set for ourselves in
March.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Okay. That refers to both those items you highlighted on the call?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: In terms of operating expenses here?
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Yes.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. I mean, we talked about the absence of the planned El Segundo
Refinery shutdown that occurred in the fourth quarter. So relative to first quarter, you’ve got a
variance there.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Sure.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: A positive variance there.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Okay.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And we also talked about – we took expenses associated with the exit
of certain U.S. East Coast markets in the fourth quarter. Don’t have those again.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: Okay. No. I follow that. Just want to make sure that was the bulk of the
number. Okay, that clarifies it. Thanks a lot.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: I’m sorry <A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. Thank you.
<Q – Doug Terreson>: You’re welcome.
Operator: Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley is on the line with the question. Please state your
question.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Good morning, everybody
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Morning, Evan.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Another great quarter here. I have a question on the balance sheet and your
comments – your positive $3 billion free cash flow in the quarter driving increase in your cash
balance.
Can you generally discuss what cash levels Chevron considers reinitiating a buy-back, or
conversely, looks to increase CapEx spend on the year? And I have a second question.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, no. That’s a great question. I think discussing our cash priorities
is always very important.
Really, we look at this – in terms of our uses of cash, the priorities to increase the dividends,
sustain and increase the dividends. We did that – did it only 9 months, not a year, after the previous
increase.
We then fund C&E. We’ve got a good opportunity set currently underway, and a good opportunity
set ahead of us, so a big queue of attractive projects.
We’d also look to keep our balance sheet healthy so that we can weather commodity price
downturns, margin downturns, and also keep our flexibility for future opportunities. We look at
funding our pension plans as appropriate. And it’s only after we’ve done all of those factors and sort
of met those sort of hurdles that we look at share repurchases.
So on a go-forward basis, in order to re-inaugurate or re-institute the share repurchase program,
we’re going to have to see some cash in excess of our ongoing operating requirements – ongoing
working capital requirements. Some cash balances that will, again, allow us to weather any sort of
downturn in margins and prices. We’re going to have to see what I would call sustained positive
surplus cash generation going forward, so our outlook would have to suggest that.
And I think we’re going to have to have confidence in our ability to be able to sustain a meaningful
share repurchase program. We don’t want to be in a position of sort of turning this on and off.
And while I’m very pleased with our current balance sheet position and the cash generation from
our projects, I’m not in a position to say that I see all of those criteria exactly being met. I think we
have a great track record, frankly, of doing this balance on uses of cash quite well. I think our
shareholders have been well rewarded with the choices that we’ve made here. And our intent is to
keep making these wise choices going forward.
<Q – Evan Calio>: That’s great. Thanks for the color there.
My second question is a little bit on an Ecuador update. I know you’ve had a lot of progress in the
recent quarter, and you won the southern district on the challenge to proceed in the Hague, and
you awarded the $700 million, subject to a tax determination, against Ecuador in an unrelated
matter.

And I guess had a few specific questions of what is the path forward in terms of collecting on the
award against Ecuador? And any idea on maybe timing on your recent motion to strike the expert
report in the environmental matter in Lago Agrio? And maybe any interplay between the state level
actions and the environmental case would be helpful.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. Well, let me just take them here hopefully one at a time. See if I
can knock those off.
In terms of the international arbitration ruling – and for those of you who may be aren’t quite familiar
with it, this is where the international court ruled in favor for Chevron for approximately $700 million
in damages and interest related to a longstanding set of commercial claims. And they found that the
Ecuador court had violated international law, basically, through delays and rulings on certain
disputes between Texaco and the Ecuadorian government. The case is separate from the Lago
Agrio case.
In terms of next steps about collecting on that, I wouldn’t put that in any of your models any time
soon here. There’s quite a degree of additional dialog that needs to go on about not only the
amount of the money, the interest, the taxation associated, the proper tax rates to apply to that. So
I think you need to think of that as being still covered with a great deal of uncertainty. The
Ecuadorian government has said that they’re going to seek annulment of the award, but we don’t –
they haven’t identified any basis upon which they can do that.
In terms of the local court proceedings, there really hasn’t been a significant change in sort of
timing or activity associated here. We did have the – conflict of interest was reported or identified,
basically, with Mr. Cabrera. He’s the individual who was appointed by the local court to make the
remediation assessment, and it’s been found out that he has an ownership position in a
remediation company that stands to benefit financially from any judgment against Chevron, so he’s
got an obvious conflict of interest, and he didn’t make that known to the court. We’ve asked the
court to reject his work. The court denied that request.
And then we also have had one of the technical experts for the plaintiff has testified that his reports
were – or that reports were submitted to the local court under his signature, but they were not his
report. And he has said that he never concluded that the sites posed a risk to human health or to
the environment.
So we’ve had a number of positive developments, but all that being said, I don’t think it changes
some of the fundamentals about there’s still a great deal of uncertainty out there. While the court
has proceeded or finished with a lot of its procedural components, I think we still have to wait and
see what the next steps are going to be.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay, great. I appreciate that.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America – Merrill Lynch.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thanks. Good morning, Pat and Jeanette.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: I don’t know if you’re going to be able to answer this one terribly easy.
But we monitor – I guess you’d could call it your upstream capture rate, which is looking at your
worldwide oil and gas prices weighted by your volumes and your net income. And for quite a while
it was a fairly stable relationship. The last couple quarters, last year it fell out of bed a little bit.

On this quarter, last quarter – this quarter in particular – it has been pretty stellar. It’s terrific, the
result in particularly the international upstream.
So my question is, is there something changing there? This is on an earnings basis, obviously. I’m
thinking is there something changing in the DD&A level? Was there a tax benefit that was particular
this quarter? Obviously your tax rate was a little lower.
If you could just give some color as to whether or not this is something that may actually be
sustainable because, as I say, it was a pretty terrific capture rate this quarter.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: I don’t have your numbers in front of me, Doug, but for DD&A, we were –
compared to – for fourth quarter, DD&A was essentially flat. There really wasn’t anything too
unusual going on in DD&A.
Compared to first quarter 2009, DD&A was up 7%. But our production over the time period was up
5%, so that was really what was driving that. So nothing terribly unusual.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: What about on the pre-tax line?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I was going to just follow-up on the tax component. I don’t know if
that’s what you were going to ask here.
But just on taxes, we did see a lower effective tax rate in the first quarter compared to the fourth
quarter, and also compared to last year’s first quarter. And that really, in both periods, reflects just
jurisdictional changes, not only within the upstream country-by-country analysis, but also between
upstream and downstream.
And then also, for example, in the international sector, we did – there was a change, a reduction in
Canadian corporate tax rates that applied in the first quarter, for example, which was baked in
there.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: So would it be – I mean, guidance is not something you normally give on
tax, but should we expect that the tax rate is going be kind of lower than your legacy run rate, given
that change?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I think that it’s too early to kind of give that sort of a forward indication.
Taxes are really very lumpy, and it really is dependent upon earnings profiles across the
jurisdictions.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Okay. The second one. if I could just squeeze it in, on the major projects
that you brought on stream, it seems also a lot of these were liquids rich, I guess, or liquids heavy.
Where are we in terms the growth in those projects now? Are they now at plateau? I guess Perdido
is probably not, but in terms of the other major projects you brought on last year, are they all now at
the full rate? If you could give some color, that would be great.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I think, largely, the answer for that, broadly, would be yes.
Perdido just came on at the very tail end of this quarter here, so that obviously has a ramp-up
profile that is much – more extensive. It will take quite some time.

Tengiz reliability has been very strong, and Tengiz is currently producing around 600,000 barrels a
day, which is just a tremendous accomplishment for the quarter. We mentioned Mafumeira Norte. It
hit peak production here at 42,000 barrels a day. And Frade. Frade continues to ramp up, and
we’re very pleased with the progress that we’ve seen here, particularly most recently. Current
production’s about 60,000 barrels a day from 5 wells.
So I think there will be some continued ramp. But in the broad answer, I think we have seen the
vast majority of the ramp-up.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Got it. Thanks a lot.
Operator: Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Thank you, and good morning. Nice inflection point in terms of the earnings
power of the downstream that became apparent during the quarter.
My question is our indicator margins for the West Coast and Singapore, two areas that you have
significant exposure to, would indicate that strength was actually building in April, relative to what
we saw late in the first quarter, and certainly for the quarter as an average. Would you be able to
confirm that the margin environment you’re facing in those 2 markets is improving, and that you’re
able to capture those margins?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, Doug (sic) [Jason], I think our best view really right now in both
those locations would be that you may have some softening going into the second quarter.
Because what was driving these really related to refinery maintenance and turnaround schedules.
And depending upon how those units come back online, the extent to which they come back online
– again, relative to demand – you may still have some sloppiness in the markets.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Okay, great. And then a second one, if I could.
The LNG market is obviously starting to swing towards the favor of the buyer versus the seller right
now. Can you tell me if there’s been progress made on incremental marketing on the Wheatstone
volumes that are not committed right now?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. I mean right now, we have about 60% of the Wheatstone
volumes that are under HOAs or tentatively committed here. We continue to have tremendous
interest on the part of prospective buyers.
We’ll update you as those HOAs come to fruition, but we haven’t seen really any softening in
interest for our particular product slice.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Okay. Thanks very much, Pat.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi, good morning.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning, Paul.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning, Paul.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Just going back to the Deepwater Horizon disaster, I was wondering if you
could just help me list the risks to Chevron from this incident. I’m sure you’ll confirm that there’s
obviously no direct liability for Chevron. But some of the things that come to mind are the potential
for a suspension of leasing – I think is coming out of the White House this morning. There’s
obviously the potential for suspension of activity in the deepwater GOM. I’m thinking higher safety
costs. I was wondering whether you thought that would be an impact. Perhaps even higher taxes.
There is, I guess, the potential for oil movements to be disrupted. I don’t know what your thoughts
are on that, and whether you’re thinking about, for example, supply to Pascagoula or whether or not
that might be a total red herring. And then, of course, is the overall industry risk.
But if you could just kind of throw out there what you perceive to be the risks. And again, as I said I
assume, confirm that there’s no direct liability. That would help us begin to get our arms around this
issue. Thanks.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah. I mean, Paul, you’ve outlined a number of the risks that I’m sure
are on everybody’s minds. I really can’t speak to any of those at this point in time. It’s really just too
premature.
I would imagine – I mean there’s tremendous interest, as we all can appreciate – tremendous
interest in trying to first stop the flow of oil, make sure that we’ve got containment and cleanup. And
then understand what has happened.
I don’t – I think that – we wouldn’t want to pre-judge or leap too quickly. I’m sure the administration
and members of Congress won’t want to be doing that either. So I really just don’t know how this is
going to play out. It’s just too early to say.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Have you guys ever had any kind of a similar incidence yourselves?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We’ve had an absolutely outstanding safety record, and I can’t think of
one here recently that comes to my mind. We’ve been operating globally – well, for decades, and
do not have any that comes to my mind at this point in time.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We have an outstanding safety record.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah. I understand.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And this is not our incident, and we are not in any way touched by this
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Directly, yes.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: – from a operating standpoint. We have offered assistance to BP and
to the MMS and to government entities. And we’ve been taken up on those – that offer. So we
stand ready just as everybody in the industry stands ready to put collective intelligence and
capabilities to work to get this handled.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, that’s great. Obviously – what would be the exact nature of the
assistance you would give?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Look, I mean, whether it’s equipment, people, processes – anything
that we can – that they feel we can offer, we’re happy to do it.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: But as such, it’s an offer with no direct – you haven’t actually done anything
as such yet?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: No, no, there have been discussions between ourselves, government
agencies, BP, et cetera. I mean it is a consortium of effort that is under way here.
That’s really all I want to – that’s really all I know, and that’s really all I can say about it.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, I understand absolutely. It’s just obviously we’re all trying to get our
arms around this disaster. And let’s just hope it all works itself out.
Just a very brief follow-up. Your volume, can you just talk again about your volume target for the
year? Obviously you’re chasing ahead of that. Any thoughts about – I guess there’s an implied
slowdown later in the year. But if you could just update us on the very latest after a strong Q1, and
I’ll leave it there. Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Sure. Yeah. That’s a good question. That’s a fair question here.
We had production for the quarter of 2.78 million barrels a day. It’s 90,000 barrels a day ahead of
our external guidance on a price-adjusted basis. We talked about it being principally related to our
base business performance, where we’ve had good reliability and good optimization of facilities
basically here. So our production efficiency has been running about 3% higher than our plan.
Now, on the go-forward here, we do have a number of turnarounds that are planned in the second
quarter and third quarter of the year. These would be, TCO, for example, or – in the North Sea, et
cetera. We also can get into weather-related issues in the third quarter, in particular – second and
third quarter in particular.
So while it’s a very good quarter for us, and it bodes well going in, we’re not in a position where we
want to give an update at this point in time. We’ll come back on in the second quarter call and be
happy to do that for you.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah. That’s great. Is it fair to say that your Q1 volumes were ahead of what
you had planned, in terms of when you gave the original...
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, absolutely. And that’s because of the reliability factors that we’ve
gone through with you. We’re just very pleased with how well all our facilities are running.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yep. I understand. Thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
<Q – Ed Westlake>: Thanks. Good morning. Obviously very interesting week. Just in terms of the
CapEx outlook, you obviously got Gorgon and Wheatstone coming in, but you’ve got projects like
Agbami, Tengiz, which are very expensive, coming out. What sort of – can you comment, at this
stage, in terms of the type of CapEx run rate that you’d expect not just for this year but for outer
years? And is that one of the reasons, perhaps, why you’re holding back in terms of buybacks?
Thanks.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: It’s a good question. I mean, our C&E – we typically only give C&E
targets out one year. And we do that for a variety of reasons. It obviously depends on commodity
prices and industry costs. And we have seen and continue to see some variability in industry cost
levels. So I’m not going to talk to you about 2011 and 2012 or 2013 capital spending programs.

And we do have large projects coming on. Gorgon and Wheatstone, they’re in the horizon,
certainly. But you need to keep in mind that we also are coming off of and have placed into service
a number of high capital requirement projects – TCO, Agbami, et cetera. So you have somewhat of
a dove-tailing here between the placing in service of some historical projects that are giving us
good cash flows and earnings now versus some future projects down the line.
I don’t think – if you’re thinking forward here a little bit, I don’t think you should think about seeing
any sort of dramatic increases in C&E. But at the same time, we’ve talked – and I think George was
pretty articulate about this at our meeting in March – to the extent that we see economic investment
opportunities – and I’ll talk to incremental oil development opportunity, for example, in base
business, or in – if we look forward a couple of years, or whenever U.S. gas prices get to be
sustained at a higher level – George talked about being able to bring on developments at the
Piceance and Haynesville.
So at the same time, you shouldn’t be surprised to see necessarily an uptick because that will
mean that we have found very good economic opportunities for incremental C&E spending.
<Q – Ed Westlake>: And maybe a follow-on. I mean, is the, I guess, feeling that you’re too early in
terms of comfort level about all of those five factors you outlined in terms of doing the buybacks, is
any of that related to some concern about the risk that Gorgon and Wheatstone CapEx might end
up being a little higher than you’ve currently budgeted?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: No, not at all, really. We’re very early days into the Gorgon and
Wheatstone developments.
Gorgon, we’ve contracted for about $22 billion of the – we’ve awarded contracts for about $22
billion. And because we’re very reasonably early in the queue of spending compared to other LNG
projects in that arena, we think we’re in an advantaged place costwise, pricewise, contractwise.
<Q – Ed Westlake>: Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hi, good morning.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Pat and Jeanette, Pat, you gave a number in your presentation that the base
operations sequentially from fourth quarter, down about 27,000 barrels per day or 1%. Do you have
that number for the first quarter, versus?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: I don’t have with me, Paul. You can give me a call. I’ll give it to you later.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. I assume that is probably end up there much lower, as you indicated,
about 3% better than your current trend. Do we have any kind of a timing issue in terms of a
workover that just finished, and as a result, that we have a big jump in the near term production?
So trying to understand that. Is it just a normal better efficiency and better reliability, or we have
some timing issue related to that benefit in the first quarter?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Paul, it’s primarily better reliability that Pat talked about. There was – our
Malampaya operations were down for a turnaround during the first quarter. But that’s really the only
unusual activity.

<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. The second quick one is that the head count reduction – is all the
people related to severance charge in this quarter, are they all left the company already? And if
they are not, then when do you think the saving will start to flow through into your bottom line? And
what is the target run rate from those head count reduction saving will be?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. So the total accrual, $175 million, relates to a total of 3,800
employees, spread across Downstream and then the other corporate staff group areas.
We expect on the Downstream side that 2,000 will hit that target for downstream by the end of this
year. And I would say the vast majority of that 3,800 will occur in – by the end of 2010, early 2011.
Certainly, within the two-year window, you will have all of those reduction occur.
In terms of a run rate, not all of these savings from head count reductions are baked in – certainly
not to our first quarter plan. Probably not likely to see much of an impact in second quarter. It would
really only be as you moved into the third and fourth quarters that you’d begin to see that impact.
And the full effect really will be towards the end of 2011.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: And I know you guys talking about the 400 hundred million long view saving.
How much of them is related to head count reduction?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I’m sorry. I’m not understanding the question.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: The saving – that 3,800 people, that when they all left, what is the actual
saving through the P&L going to look like?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. I don’t have a number for you on that, because it’s, again,
spread across Downstream and corporate staffs and whatnot.
It clearly is partly baked into the 7% ROCE improvement that Mike Wirth talked about in our
Security Analysts Meeting. Part of the efficiency improvements that he talked about obviously relate
to the streamlining that we’re working to do, and head count is a piece of that.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. And just final one. I think for Gorgon and Wheatstone, I think there’s a
lot of concern with a lot of new LNG projects coming onstream, even though you guys are a bit
ahead of time. But towards the tail end, by 2013, 2014, labor could be pretty tight.
Pat, can you share with us that in terms of how you guys manage it or how the contract is being
set? Is it a turn-key and that just a fixed amount? Or that you are still subject to the spot rate for the
labor market during that development phase?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah. I mean, I think as far as I want to go on saying this – this project
has been in FEED and kind of well scoped out probably amongst the best of any significant major
capital projects in the globe. And so we have had a lot of opportunity to work very hard on the
contracting strategy and the contracting plan. And as I said, we’ve executed 22 billion of awards
against that.
So I think we’re getting – it’s a very competitive project here. And there’s lots of pieces to it, lots of
contracting to it. And I don’t really want to generalize or get specifically into contracting strategy
here with you.
We’re confident that it’s a – going to be a very competitive project, once up and running. And so far,
we’re on schedule and we’re on plan.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Can you tell us that on the labor side, is that still make you subject to the spot
market of the labor, or not really? I mean you don’t have to tell me exactly what’s the term, but want
to see whether you’re still exposed to the spot market of the labor market.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well, as far as I want to go is just to say look it’s in everybody’s
interests – our interest, government’s interests, labor’s interests, to get this project online under the
commitments that we’re agreed to at the time that we sanctioned the project.
We have strong government support, and everybody understands certainly locally there how
important Gorgon is to the local economy. So we’re confident that we’ll be able to get the labor that
we need at competitive prices and have an economic project.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Paul, I think I need to turn it over to somebody else here, if you don’t
mind. Give somebody else a chance.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: That’s fine. Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with Benchmark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Hello, guys. Good morning. I had a couple of specific things, if I could,
please.
I believe either Jeanette or Pat mentioned 600,000 barrel a day capacity at TCO. Is that just
liquids? And is it sustainable?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: That’s just oil, Mark. You’re correct.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: And sustainability, Jeanette?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: It’s looking very good right now.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Regarding the tax item that was mentioned in the international upstream, the
Canadian statutory implications, is there a positive deferred tax one-timer that was associated with
that change in the statutory rate?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yes.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Quantify it, please?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I don’t think we want to do that.
I mean, it’s – but I’d say here, Mark, I know you were trying to get at taxes. That was one piece that
was – it was a small piece, but directionally, it occurred in the quarter. I think it’s very hard to give
any more information about taxes on a predictive sort of basis for you.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: I’m not asking for a prediction. I’m just asking for the one-time effect of the
deferred tax adjustment that went along with that statutory change.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Well, I don’t have it handy here.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: It’s immaterial in the aggregate, Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Production versus the fourth quarter was up. Yet there was no mention
of volumetric effects in the international upstream, Jeanette, in your discussion. Should I assume
that liftings were flat period-to-period, and that’s why there was no volume mentioned?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Well, we’re under-lifted in the first quarter, if that’s what you’re asking.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: In other words...
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: 1%. It’s not that big.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: What was the amount? I’m sorry.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: 1%.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: And that’s a shortfall of liftings versus first quarter production?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Correct.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. One final one. Your deliveries in production in Bangladesh, on the gas
side, have been constrained in the recent past by logistical, infrastructural, and perhaps some
contractual considerations. Looks like they jumped up pretty good in this period. Is this a signal that
those issues have been resolved?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: There certainly has been increased demand in Bangladesh, and we’re
continuing to de-bottleneck our existing facilities. We still do have pipeline constraints of getting the
gas out. So we still have more resource, if we can work through those.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, folks. Thanks very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: All right. Thanks very much. Two questions, if I may.
First, can you update us on anything you’ve heard in Kazakhstan in terms of the contract review or
tax review announced by the government? And if there is any effect on TCO?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: You’re speaking to Karachaganak?
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Tengiz.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I’m not sure what you’re referencing here really. But we have a strong
relationship in Kazakhstan. We’ve got tremendous, long-standing business there. The...
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: So in other words, no tax review regarding Tengiz?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: No tax review regarding Tengiz. That’s why I was asking if you were
talking about Karachaganak.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Okay. Okay.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And TCO is kind of fundamentally our operation here. And good, longstanding relationship. Good agreement on contracts, sanctity of contracts. Well entrenched, well –
everything’s working quite well there.
And in terms of the Karachaganak issues, really, we need to refer you to the operator there. We’re
certainly just hopeful that the issues that are under dispute can come to conclusion quickly.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Right. In other words, no read-through for Tengiz of any kind?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: No read-through for Tengiz.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Okay, great. Second question. There was shale gas acreage in Poland. I
think you have about a million acres. Any timetable on when you might commence activity?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, it’s our plan here really to do seismic work in 2010 and probably
look to begin drilling in 2011.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Very good. Thanks.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Good morning.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: On the international upstream side, the $215 million of OpEx improvement
sequentially quarter-over-quarter, is that number kind of sustainable through the entire year? Or
does that actually get better? Are we going to still see improvements going into second and third
quarters?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: No. I mean I think we’d like to get another quarter under our belt here.
In the quarter, there were – the cost reductions or op expense reductions we felt were really kind of
all over the place, in terms of countries as well as cost categories.
And I think that the way to look at this is fourth quarter typically is the higher op expense quarter for
us. First quarter is oftentimes a lower op expense quarter for us. So I think you want to look at
previous patterns, in terms of your projections going forward.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay. Got you. And then in terms of the production volumes that look like they
were still ramping up out of Kazakhstan and Eurasia, the numbers that you guys have seen over
the last several quarters, is that continuing to ramp up? Or should we expect those numbers to be
relatively flattish now?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: I think flattish is probably a better place to target.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay. And then the production declines in the Philippines, what caused the
natural gas declines over there?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: It was a turnaround in the quarter.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay. So we should see that come back up?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Yeah, you should expect to see that come back up next quarter.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: And last question on Gorgon. As you guys have let all your contracts out for
this project, how are you guys dealing with kind of higher nickel prices? Because obviously I think in
a modular design, you tend to have higher material costs. So how are you guys dealing with that
situation?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Gosh, I don’t have any unique information on the nickel cost impact on
Gorgon.
You’re right. It is modular design. And we’ve got work in a number of fabricating yards all across the
globe, really, here. I don’t have anything specific to offer on that particular item.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay, great. I appreciate the time.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. Thank you.
Operator: Our final question comes from Jacques Rousseau with RBC.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Good morning.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Just wanted to ask another tax question, coming at it from a little
different way.
Would you be able to provide the international upstream tax rate in the first quarter and then
compare it to some other quarters? And that may be able to help determine some of this difference.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I don’t think we want to necessarily go into that kind of detail.
The effective rates – I mean they really can move quite substantially in the international sector from
one quarter to the next quarter to the next quarter. And it’s dependent literally upon the taxable
income by country in those locations, any sort of tax changes that may have occurred, any sort of
application of investment tax credits that are applicable. We also have differences associated with
gains and losses on asset sales that can influence the effective tax rate.
So I think that it’s just hard for us to give a go-forward point for you there.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Well, not so much for a go-forward point, but just to be able to
compare historically as to what the change represented year-over-year.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. Well, year-over-year, for a full-year cycle, I think 2008 and 2009
have been relatively stable in the 43, 44% range. Fourth quarter was high, higher than that. First
quarter was substantially lower than that for us.
So it bounces around, but for the year, perhaps, maybe thinking about it averaging out.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Okay. One other one. In terms of the chemical assets and earnings
getting moved into the downstream, is there a kind of rule of thumb as to what percentage of the
assets will be in the U.S. downstream and how much will go into the international downstream?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, the chemical operations, right, are wholly owned Chevron
Oronite and 50% joint venture with Chevron Phillips Chemical Company. That 50% shows up in the
U.S. segment. And the Oronite has both U.S. and non-U.S. components to it.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Helpful. Thank you.
Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Okay, thank you very much. I think that concludes our call for today.
I want to thank all of you for your participation on the call. I especially want to thank the analysts
who asked questions, good questions, on behalf of all the participants.
So Shawn, I’ll turn it back over to you.
Operator: Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s First Quarter 2010
Earnings Conference Call. You may now disconnect.
