Operator: Good morning. My name is Shaun and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President
Thank you, Shaun.
Welcome to Chevron’s Second Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast. On the call with me today are
George Kirkland, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Global Upstream & Gas and
Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of Investor Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron’s financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2010.
We’ll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron’s web site.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections
and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement here on
Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The second quarter earnings were $5.4
billion or $2.70 per diluted share. Our second quarter 2010 earnings more than tripled compared
with the year-ago quarter.
Second quarter 2010 earnings increased 19% compared to the first quarter of 2010, which Jeanette
will discuss shortly in more detail. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about
16%. The debt ratio was 9.5%, with cash balances exceeding debt balances by $2.7 billion at the
end of the quarter.
Jeanette will take us now through the quarterly comparisons. Jeanette?

Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Pat.
Turning to Slide 4, I will compare results of the second quarter 2010 with the first quarter 2010. As
a reminder, our earnings release compares second quarter 2010 with the same quarter a year ago.
Second quarter earnings increased about 850 million from the first quarter. Upstream earnings
were 180 million lower due to unfavorable tax charges and higher OpEx, partially offset by a
favorable foreign currency variance.
Second quarter downstream results saw significant improvement of nearly 780 million. Earnings
benefited from stronger U.S. margins, favorable foreign currency and timing variances, as well as
the absence of first quarter charges related to planned employee reductions. The other bar largely
reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items and lower corporate charges.
On Slide 5, our U.S. upstream earnings for the second quarter were 66 million lower than the first
quarter’s results. Realizations in the second quarter were down 95 million. Natural gas realizations
drove the decline, dropping 24%, slightly higher than the 20% decline in Henry Hub spot prices.
U.S. crude oil realizations were essentially flat between quarters.
Lower production volumes decreased earnings by 40 million between periods, primarily due to
down time and normal field declines in the Gulf of Mexico. The other bar represents a benefit of 69
million, which is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including lower DD&A rates and
exploration expenses.
Turning to Slide 6, international upstream earnings were down 116 million compared with the first
quarter. Higher realizations benefited earnings by 70 million. Liquids realizations rose 2% between
quarters, in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations were a
slight offset, declining 5% between periods.
A favorable swing in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by 210 million. First quarter results
included a 100 million loss that was effectively offset by a 110 million gain in the second quarter.
An unfavorable swing in tax items across multiple jurisdictions decreased earnings 220 million.
Second quarter charges of about 120 million effectively offset a 100 million earnings benefit in the
first quarter.

OpEx increased 120 million in the second quarter, which included higher turnaround costs in
Kazakhstan and Canada. The other bar reflects higher exploration expenses and DD&A rates.
Slide 7 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron’s worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 37,000 barrels per day between quarters. Price changes had a modest effect
on volumes under production-sharing and variable-royalty contracts in the second quarter, about
3,000 barrels per day. Base business production decreased 47,000 barrels per day between
quarters, largely due to planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan and Canada, partially offset by higher
demand-driven production in Thailand.
Incremental production from major capital projects increased second quarter production by 13,000
barrels per day, primarily driven by the continued ramp-up at Frade in Brazil. George will discuss
our current year production outlook in a few minutes.
Turning to Slide 8, U.S. downstream earnings improved 350 million in the second quarter. Indicator
margins strengthened between quarters, increasing earnings by 170 million. Refining margins
improved from the depressed levels of the last several quarters. Actual margin capture from
advantageous crude mix and product yields increased earnings by an additional 90 million.
Chemical results were 50 million higher, mainly due to improved margins for olefins and aromatics.
The absence of an employee severance charge recorded in the first quarter benefited earnings by
50 million. The other bar is a negative variance of 9 million.
On Slide 9, international downstream earnings also improved significantly, increasing about 430
million from first quarter’s results. Margins were 45 million higher, with improvements in Europe
partly offset by declines in Asia. A favorable swing in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by
230 million. First quarter included a 100 million loss compared to a 130 million gain in the second
quarter.
Timing effects represented a 155 million positive variance between quarters, reflecting favorable
mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions. WTI prices dropped
about $8 per barrel from the beginning to the end of the quarter. The absence of a 100 million
employee severance charge recorded in the first quarter also benefited earnings. The other bar is
comprised of several unrelated items, including planned maintenance impacts at our Cape Town
refinery in South Africa.

Slide 10 covers all other. Second quarter net charges were 108 million compared to a net 368
million charge in the first quarter, a decline of 260 million between quarters. A favorable swing in
corporate tax items resulted in a 220 million variance. Corporate charges were lower in the second
quarter and included the absence of a 25 million severance charge related to workforce reductions
recognized earlier in the year. We believe our quarterly guidance range of 250 to $350 million for
net charges in the all other segment is still appropriate going forward.
George is now going to provide an update on our Upstream business. George?

George Kirkland, Executive Vice President, Global Upstream & Gas
Thank you, Jeanette.
It’s good to be back to discuss upstream performance and our production outlook for the remainder
of the year. I’m very pleased with our progress at the first half of 2010, especially around our safety
and production performance.
Let’s begin by looking at our second quarter competitive position on earnings margins. Please turn
to Slide 12.

In the first quarter, our adjusted earnings per barrel were $19.50, over $3 higher than our nearest
competitor. In the second quarter, upstream margins were $18.74, another excellent quarter,
reinforcing the strength of our oil-weighted portfolio and the quality of the new projects we’re
bringing online.
Based on competitor results disclosed this week, we have sustained our competitive advantage.
We led our nearest competitor by over $4 per barrel this quarter, and this is our fourth consecutive
quarter in the top position on this metric.
Now I’ll turn to production. Please turn to Slide 13.
Our first half production averaged 2.76 million barrels a day at an average WTI price of $78 per
barrel. At the fourth quarter call in January, we set full-year production guidance at 2.73 million
barrels a day, based on the 2009 actual price of $62 a barrel. Using the same price basis, our year
to date production would be 60,000 barrels a day higher than the original guidance.
Remember, a portion of our net production is sensitive to price through entitlements. At current oil
prices, this is about 2,000 barrels a day for every dollar price change.
Our full-year production outlook at year-to-date prices of $78 per barrel is 2.75 million barrels a day,
almost 2% higher than 2009 levels. At $62 per barrel, this translates to 2.78 million barrels a day or
about 3% growth, significantly higher than our original guidance of 1%. The higher growth forecast
is driven by stronger base business performance, our focus on reliability and system optimization,
as well as increased gas sales in Thailand.
Our annual base business decline is now estimated to be in the 4 to 5% range. Incremental
production for major capital projects remains close to the original forecast.
Most projects are performing as planned. Better performance has been seen at SGI/SGP in
Kazakhstan, Frade in Brazil, and Mafumeira Norte in Angola. This improved performance is offset
by delays at some non-operated projects, particularly Perdido in the deep water Gulf of Mexico and
the first expansion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in Canada.
Now please turn Slide 14.
I would like to spend a moment to discuss the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf and the
follow-on impact on our operations. First, our deepest sympathies go out to the families of the 11
individuals who lost their lives and also to others along the Gulf coast impacted by this tragedy. We
are very pleased that this well has been successfully capped.
The drilling moratorium has impacted our offshore Gulf of Mexico operations in several ways. We
expect some lost production in 2010 due to permitting delays on the shelf and a slower ramp-up at
Perdido. The full-year impact is expected to be less than 10,000 barrels a day.
When the moratorium was implemented, we were completing a Tahiti development well and drilling
the Buckskin appraisal and Moccasin exploration wells. The Tahiti well is due to come online soon,
but other development drilling activity is now on hold. Buckskin and Moccasin operations are
suspended, and our other two planned deepwater exploration wells are delayed, negatively
impacting our 2010 exploration program.
We have three deepwater rigs on contract. One is currently working for BP to assist in the spill
response. The other two are on stand-by, waiting for approval to resume drilling operations.
Although the longer-term impact of the moratorium remains unknown, we are focused on
progressing our projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The Tahiti 2, Jack-St Malo, and Big Foot
projects remain on track to reach FID later this year, assuming the moratorium is lifted.

Chevron is a leader in safety performance and we’re very confident in our abilities to safely drill and
develop our deepwater projects. Our safety and environmental focus is to prevent incidents from
occurring. We believe the investigations of this tragedy will show that it was preventable.
We are participating in joint industry task forces, working with the national commission to determine
the appropriate path forward on drilling safety, with particular attention on prevention, containment,
and spill response.
The Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater basins remain very important in meeting the energy
demands of the U.S. and the world. A continuation of the suspension of operations in the Gulf of
Mexico will reduce supply and influence energy prices. We believe the moratorium should be lifted,
and we believe that deepwater drilling can be done safely and reliably.
Turning to Slide 15, I’d now like to discuss some of our significant achievements during the second
quarter.
First, a short update on Gorgon. We continue to make good progress. Site preparations are
underway, dredging has begun, the construction camp is being built, and we have awarded over
$24 billion in contracts. As a reminder, we assigned sales and purchase agreements for
approximately 90% of the equity LNG off-take from the Gorgon trains one through three.
We recently signed a heads of agreement with Cogas for delivery of almost 2 million tons per
annum of LNG from the Wheatstone project. Cogas will also acquire a 5% equity interest in the
project. This is another successful step in early capture of market share for this project. We now
have approximately 80% of LNG off-take from Wheatstone’s train 1 and 2 tied to long-term
agreements.
Also in Australia, we have announced two deepwater natural gas discoveries in the Carnarvon
Basin, Clio-3 and Sappho-1, moving us closer towards our goal of additional LNG trains at Gorgon
and Wheatstone. I’m very pleased with our continued exploration success in Australia.

In Indonesia, we sanctioned the 13th expansion of the Duri Field, where we have 100% working
interest. This latest expansion will leverage existing steam and production facilities to increase
production from the field by approximately 20,000 barrels a day. We made good progress in
capturing new opportunities.
In the unconventional shale gas area, we have captured 675,000 acres in Romania and almost
200,000 acres in Western Canada. We expect to bring – we expect to begin appraisal of the
Canadian acreage by the end of 2011. As a reminder, we recently added a million acres in Poland.
In Venezuela, we have formed a consortium that will work toward developing the Carabobo 3 heavy
oil project in the Orinoco Belt. And in Russia, we assigned a heads of agreement with Rosneft,
Russia’s largest oil company, to pursue a deepwater opportunity on the Shatsky Ridge
in the Russian portion of the Black Sea.
In summary, I’m very pleased with our accomplishments in the second quarter and the first half of
this year.
With that, I’d like to turn it back over to Pat.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President
Okay. Thanks, George.

Turning to Slide 16, I’d like to wrap up our prepared remarks with a recap of Chevron’s strategic
progress through the first half of the year.
Strong operational momentum continued in the second quarter, and our safety performance
remains at record levels. The Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico has heightened
investor interest in operator safety and environmental record. We’re very proud of our safety culture
and our industry leading performance in this area. We publish historical statistics annually in our
corporate responsibility report, which you can find on our website.
Our businesses are continuing to run well, our major refineries are operating reliably, and upstream
production efficiency remains at a high level, which contributed to our strong first half production
performance.
We are sustaining our cost management efforts. For the first half of the year, excluding one-time
employee severance charges, operating and SG&A expenses were up 5% versus the comparable
period in 2009. Half was related to higher fuel and transportation costs. The remainder is in line
with a 4% production increase over the same period.
As George mentioned, our upstream business is growing, and growing at an industry-leading level
of profitability. He also highlighted several new opportunities that expand our set of portfolio options
to continue to grow our resource base.
In the downstream, we are executing our restructuring plan. Portfolio exit and market reviews are
under way, and specific actions are being taken to de-cost our operations. We anticipate the new
organizational structure will be in place by the end of the third quarter.
The same drivers expanding upstream earnings margins are contributing to our robust cash
position. After paying dividends and funding our capital program, we generated about 2 billion of
cash flow in the second quarter. This strong cash flow and a low net debt position allow us to
maintain our financial strength and flexibility.

I’d like to close with a few words on capital intensity. It’s a frequently heard question that I believe
should be laid to rest.
We have invested more than 60 billion in upstream in the last four years. We have brought on many
capital projects during this period that grew production 7% last year alone, and production is still
growing. And we have had the highest earnings per barrel now for four consecutive quarters, and
the gap is large.
This should be solid proof that our investments are attractive. We’re expanding at the right parts of
our portfolio. We are making the right choices on individual projects, and we have shown that we
can profitably grow.
Looking forward, we’re headed into another period not unlike the last four years. We’re taking on
world-class projects to reap the production and cash rewards when those projects come online in
the middle of the decade. We are very comfortable with this profile, as we have proven that
disciplined capital intensity is a good thing, if the projects are the right projects and you can afford
it. They are, and we can.

Now that concludes our prepared remarks. We’ll now take on your questions. So Shaun, I’d ask
that you open the lines for questions. Thank you.

Operator: [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Kessler with Simmons &
Company.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Good morning, everyone. I’ve got two questions for George, if I could.
Firstly, just a general question for you, George, on your perceptions of the current upstream M&A
market, in particular with respect to possible more substantial additions to the Chevron portfolio.
And then secondly, with regard to your confidence in reaching FID on projects in the Gulf of Mexico
later this year, notwithstanding the need for the moratorium to be lifted, I’d be curious on your
thoughts on two points. Firstly, even beyond the lifting of the moratorium, it seems we need some
confidence in understanding what the new sort of technical regulatory environment will be, and
what’s required for a development well going forward. And secondly, with respect to your thoughts
on a higher cap on – or an unlimited cap on liability in the Gulf of Mexico.
<A – George Kirkland>: M&A is going to be the standard answer. We always are looking for
opportunities that are inorganic, if you will. But they’ve got to compete. They’ve got to make
economic sense for us.

The market has still been very hot. People I think are overpaying. And once again, it’s back to
returns. We believe in returns. So it’s got to be return basis. It’s got to fit with our portfolio. It’s got to
be a bump on our returns.
On the Gulf of Mexico, the technical work, we are moving it forward as if the moratorium is going to
be released, removed. We do not know all the changes on the technical requirements. We have
been leading a task force that made – that did make recommendations that would raise the industry
standards on drilling wells. I will tell you most all those standard improvements or raising the bar, if
you will, we presently do in our drilling operations.
Now we don’t know the individual procedural changes engagement with government that will be
required. We are waiting to see that. But we’re drilling wells around the world. We have seen higher
engagement with other governments. It does have some minor impact on the time it takes to drill a
well, but it is not significant. Once again, our confidence is very high in being able to drill these
wells safety, just like we have drilled hundreds of other deepwater wells. So we think it’s going to
move forward.
Now with regards to the liability cap, it’s an issue that we can understand why governments would
want to increase it, but at the same time, if it gets too high, it won’t impact companies necessarily
like a Chevron, except in our decision-making. But for our competitor group and a broad span of the
competitors, some of them may not be able to participate.
We believe competition is good, and if you set the liability cap too high, there’s a lot of companies
that will not be able to participate. And we don’t believe that’s a good thing. It may be a competitive
advantage, but we don’t believe it is a good thing for the industry, for consumers. So we don’t
support it.
<Q – Robert Kessler>: Very rational response. Thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. I’ve got a
couple questions.

I guess the first one is on kind of an upstream and a capital question. George, as it relates to your
comments on the underlying decline, I seem to recall several quarters ago you talked about how in
the current gas environment, gas price environment, you would probably slow the base spending,
and that might accelerate your decline rate a little bit. It doesn’t appear that that’s happening. Can
you give some color around what has changed there that is allowing you to hold the base a little
better?
And the related question is, given that you’ve – I guess the capital spending for the year to date
looks a little bit on the light side, we’re getting into the second half. We’re starting to look at FIDs for
the longer-term projects. Can you give us an early look as to how you – why your capital is not
quite running at the rate you suggested at the strategy day? And what perhaps the outlook might be
for 2011? That would be great. Thanks.
<A – George Kirkland>: The decline rate, you’re absolutely correct. We did, I guess, say that there
was a potential for a higher decline rate as we reduce some of our expenditures in the base
business, particularly in 2009. We also pulled back, like you said, on some of our gas investments
and preferentially moved more – or as much as we could – towards oil.
Our success on keeping that decline rate in this 4 to 5% has been very good. It really is all related
to the reliability and the production efficiency of our operations. We have seen production
efficiency, which really is reliability of our operations, come up by about 2%. So what we thought we
were going to lose on decline rate has been overcome by greater efficiency, greater reliability in our
base business operations.

And frankly, we are extremely pleased with that. That’s great for efficiency of money spent. That’s
getting more barrels and not spending – you know, when you’re getting from the base and you’re
not having to spend much money for it, it is really good-margin barrels.
Now on the capital spend rate, in the upstream, we’re very close to our typical spend profile for the
year. We are almost dead on our target when you look at the last four years of history on how we
would spend our money.
So my expectation’s we will spend our capital. I think there is even a chance that we will be a little
bit higher on spend in the upstream than what we had said initially. Not significantly, but we’ve
added a few opportunities that we mentioned this morning that will require some monies in 2010,
and that will likely push our capital spend for the year slightly above what we told you in March.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Got it. Thank you.
Can I ask a follow up for Pat? I guess it’s kind of related, but also an adjacent question.
The share buyback program has been reloaded to an unlimited number, it looks like. With the
amount of cash in the balance sheet, I’m curious as to why no share buybacks in Q3. And if you
could also address the tax rate, which looked a little light for this quarter. And I’ll leave it there.
Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good questions.
On the share repurchases, we were facing the expiration of the three-year program, and while we –
and we indicated in the press release that we’re not looking to inaugurate one at this point in time,
we wanted to retain the flexibility for having that option on a go-forward basis.
Basically George, I think, answered your question about why not inaugurating it now because we
mentioned about having a higher spend profile – a typical higher second half spend profile in C&E.
And that’s really what’s coloring our view right now.

On the effective tax rate, you know, it’s – I think the best way to look at this is on a year to date
basis. And foreign exchange was over – about half of the variance in the year to date 2010 versus
year to date 2009 time period. So foreign exchange comes through. It’s balance sheet translation.
It’s not cash effect. It is not tax affected either. So when you have big swings in foreign exchange,
you get big swings in your effective tax rate.
The other activity going on there really relates to just jurisdictional changes.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Okay, Pat. Would you give us a run rate perhaps for the underlying tax
rate?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I think the best way to look at it is, over a long period of time, we’ve
been a little bit lower this year than we were in 2009. So maybe on average for 2010 we may be a
little bit lower. But it’s not an area I want to get into predicting.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: All right. Thanks for answering my questions. Thanks.
Operator: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Good morning, everybody.
My first question is on Wheatstone. With 80% of the gas under contract, are you targeting a higher
percentage, closer to 90, for Gorgon? Is there any sell down interest in the project contemplated?

And with the HUAs closer to done, can you discuss other hurdles for the project here before you
reach FID in 2011? Are you trending ahead of schedule? That’s the way it would look to me.
<A – George Kirkland>: There was a couple questions there. I thought – I wasn’t sure all of them
were Wheatstone. It sounded like it was a Gorgon question. But I think, when I answer, if I don’t,
come back and redirect <Q – Evan Calio>: Sure.
<A – George Kirkland>: – and I’d be happy to give clarification.
Our target on Wheatstone on gas, on long-term basis sales, is 90%, just like what we did in
Gorgon. We believe 90% gives us the flexibility to deal with any operational issues and meet our
contractual requirements.
So we’re 80% at Wheatstone. We’re very, very close. That gives us a lot of confidence that we can
move forward. What I’m telling you then is the market – where we stand in the market – it will not
be the constraint going forward on Wheatstone. So we fulfilled predominantly our goals on getting
gas sold into the long-term market.
Now, these are HOAs. They only become sales and purchase agreements when we reach FID.
I believe the project is moving forward in the FEED process very much on schedule. We would like
to accelerate it, if it’s possible. We will not accelerate it, though, unless it is ready. It’s back to the
discipline. Being ready to execute is absolutely critical for all these big projects.
A big hurdle for us is environmental permit, just like environmental permits were needed on
Gorgon. We must have those in place on Wheatstone. We have made good progress on the land
tenure piece of it, where the plant would be located. So overall, we’re very, very pleased with our
progress. We’re clicking off all the milestones that we need to, and we’re pushing to move it forward
as quickly as we can. But once again, with all the discipline in being able to execute.
<Q – Evan Calio>: That’s great. My second question. Production has been higher yet. I was just
curious if you could give us some more color on the driver of $120 million incremental international
OpEx. Is that cost inflation, maintenance, or turnaround expense? And does that impact any goforward thoughts?
<A – George Kirkland>: I think most of it is related to our turnarounds. We had big turnarounds at
Athabasca. We had big turnarounds at the KTL units in – that’s our standard – that’s a lot of our
facilities in Tengiz. So I think it’s heavily related to that.
Our second and third quarters typically are our biggest quarters on turnarounds. Quarters 1 and
quarters 4 are not. It’s generally related to weather. It’s a better time for us, typically, to do our
turnarounds in quarters two and three. So I think that explains most of it.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
<Q – Edward Westlake>: Yes, George. A couple of upstream questions.

On the accidents, you said you believed it’s preventable. So you could continue drilling and the
technical regulations are all within Chevron’s already included. So I guess the question is, is there
anything that you’re hearing out of Washington that could change your view that once the
moratorium is over, that you could go back into the Gulf? I’m thinking requirements to drill relief
wells or changes to BOPs.
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, once again, I hate to speculate on what the requirements could be.
The recommendations made to the DOI from the industry task force on improving drilling operations
– once again, we do most all of those practices already. We don’t know what is going to come out
from the government as a requirement, and until we know that, it’s really hard to speak on – speak
beyond that.
Drilling and starting a second – or starting a relief well when you’re drilling the first well, we don’t
support. We think it increases risk. You’re exposing yourself to two drilling operations at once. So
we frankly, from a risk profile and a probability basis, don’t understand that concept. We don’t think
it makes sense.
Once again, we can’t – and I don’t think we should – speculate on what’s going to come out. We
have made recommendations. We believe the bar should be raised for everyone in industry. And
we need to have assurances and I think the government and the public should have assurances
that all operations in the industry are being done safely.
<Q – Edward Westlake>: And then a follow-up back to Australia. You have got obviously success
in your own exploration efforts, and you’ve got two large LNG projects that could be expanded.
What is your thoughts in terms of accepting third party gas? Because obviously the industry is
discovering gas near your own facilities, as well.
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, in the case of Gorgon, we really don’t think we have any additional
land availability to build more trains on Barrel Island to accept any gas beyond what the Gorgon
partnership will be able to develop.

We believe there can be five trains put on Barrel Island. We believe at this point that – at least I
believe we have enough gas already for the fourth train. I didn’t say I had all the partners on board
on that, but I believe that. And we still have exploration opportunities in the Gorgon partnership.
On Wheatstone, I’ll take you back and remind everyone that we have already brought third-party
gas into that development. That’s Apache and KUFPEC and their discoveries. They will be a part of
Wheatstone development. They have a 25% working interest in the plant there.
So in these first two trains, we have already brought third-party gas. We see Wheatstone as a hub.
It’s a hub to bring in our gas and other industry gas. We have set the commercial arrangements in a
way to attract third-party gas. We believe that we have enough area on the site for up to six trains,
so we have, I think, a view that we will make this a hub with our gas and others’ gas. And make it
attractive.
<Q – Edward Westlake>: Thank you. Very clear.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Thank you very much. Good morning, Pat and George.
George, you mentioned Romania and Canada unconventional gas acreage, but generally
speaking, you are under-weight, I guess, in the unconventional gas and, in fact, oil seam,
particularly in the lower 48. Could you just talk a little bit about whether this is sort of you dabbling,
or how attractive you find the overall theme relative to the rest of your portfolio? Thanks.

<A – George Kirkland>: We like unconventional gas where we can make reasonable returns. And
I almost would characterize it simply as that.
We have got a position in the Piceance in the United States, a position in the Haynesville in east
Texas. We have drilled wells there. We know how to get the gas out of the ground efficiently. We
know how to drill the wells.
So we understand it very well. We would have – these are good positions. They don’t presently
make development sense because the gas price and the market conditions – the oversupply in the
U.S. – just doesn’t make it attractive. Those developments, our own developments that we
presently hold with – and once again, on both of these, we don’t have a royalty we have to pay in
the Piceance. And these are held by production acreage in east Texas. So what we really need is a
market that says – that needs the gas.
And then we think there will be very good returns there. We don’t see in the U.S., in most cases, an
opportunity to pay the land rentals, the royalty rates, that you see in the U.S. and make a
competitive investment. That’s why we’re looking outside the United States to apply the same
technology to look for an organic exploration-type development opportunity that we can then, with
low entry costs, develop and supply gas to market in those locations.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Thank you, George. That’s clear.
And Pat, if I could, to you, I think you pretty clearly stated that you didn’t buy back or you decided
not to buy back in Q3 because you expect to step up in CapEx. We’re forecasting you to have
another couple billion dollars of free cash flow in Q3.
Would it be reasonable then to expect, knowing your priorities regarding AA rating and everything
else, that you would be buying back shares by Q4, assuming our forecast of the excess cash flow
is correct for Q3? Thanks.

<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Paul, I’ll leave you to do the forecasting, and I’m not going to commit
here to a fourth quarter share repurchase program.
I will tell you that it will look at the whole host of things, the capital program, industry costs, what’s
happening in the global economic environment, what’s happening to downstream margins. We’ll
look across the whole gamut of variables that we try to manage here, and when we see ourselves
in a position where, after the dividend growth and a good strong capital program, and keeping the
balance sheet – if we see ourselves in a position where we’ve got surplus cash being generated for
a reasonably longer term period of time, that’s when we will look to reinstate a share repurchase
program.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: So we shouldn’t characterize the cash build as a war chest?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: No, I wouldn’t characterize the cash build as anything other than a
cash build.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Thanks, Pat. Again, I understand. It’s very clear. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with Benchmark Capital.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Folks, good morning. I had a couple questions for George, if I could, please.

First, with respect to the contracts on Gorgon and the heads of agreement, George, on
Wheatstone, can you give me a rough idea what percentage of those agreements are crude-linked
in terms of the price structure?
<A – George Kirkland>: My memory is all are price-linked to crude. We have indexed everything
to crude, and I’ll give you a little more peace, and what we have said consistently at very close to oil
parity.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Second question relates to the U.S. liquids production number, which,
at least to me, even taking into consideration the Perdido delays, looks awfully weak.
Is Blind Faith declining, or is there some other reason that we’re seeing the fall-off there, versus the
first quarter, in particular, being fairly sharp?
<A – George Kirkland>: Yes. The fall-off in the second quarter is heavily related to Hurricane Alex
disruption. It impacted our Gulf of Mexico operations by about 20,000 barrels per day in the second
quarter.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Barrels per day or barrel equivalents per day, George?
<A – George Kirkland>: Barrel equivalents, but it’s heavily barrels – particularly anything in the
deep water. The deep water piece is – Tahiti, Blind Faith, all of those projects once again are
predominantly oil.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Blind Faith holding plateau?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, Blind Faith is producing – it is coming down. It is coming down as
expected. It’s in line with what we planned and what we forecasted.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Thanks. Just one more, George.
Duri. Believe it or not, I can recall when the 12 phase steam flood was the target. You’re now
sanctioning a 13th phase. Is there something new there that you’ve identified? And is there the
potential for a whole – another set of phases along the lines of the program that was in place some
years ago?
<A – George Kirkland>: I would characterize this as more just as a further extension to the north
end of the field. And we probably will see maybe one – at least one more area extension. We’re
looking at another area that we can develop.
You always see these big fields get a little bit bigger, and you drill some more wells, and you find
the reservoir looks good – at least good enough to take the next step and do the seam operation.
That’s what’s happening here. Area 12 has been very successful, so it gives us a lot of confidence
of stepping out to area 13. I hope I come back in another year or two and talk about 14.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: George, thanks very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
George, if we’re looking at over the last several years, I think it seems like there’s a change in view
on the oil sands within Chevron. I think at one point, you guys are pretty excited and snap up a lot
of land position, and then that has been relatively quiet since then, with the exception of the ESOP
development, the upgrade, the expansion.

Can you share with us then what’s your view on the oil sands? Do you still think that stacking up,
they are not looking that great compared to the rest of your portfolio, so you are not too interested
in dramatically expanding your exposure? Or that this is an area that you guys are looking at?
<A – George Kirkland>: Paul, I think actually our view on oil sands has been pretty consistent.
We did, through some Crown lease acquisitions, obtain some acreage up there and assessed it for
in-situ steaming – steam operations. But we have done that work, and our view of the oil sands all
along has been that it’s kind of the part of the portfolio or the industry portfolio that sets almost the
marginal price. It is high cost. We have other opportunities that supercede it.
We do expect that we’ll be back into what we obtained down the road. It’s at Ells River. We’ve done
the assessment, and we fit it into the queue. It just sits back of the queue, in recognition of other
opportunities in front of it.
And I would characterize all the oil sands projects that way. They are a little bit narrower in margin
and they need higher prices to make them economic.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: George, it seems earlier you were talking about Duri, the steam fronting. Can
you give us an update how’s the pilot steam fronting project in the neutral zone?
<A – George Kirkland>: In the partition zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, we have had the
steam flood pilot there in operation for about a year now. We are seeing some temperature climb in
the reservoirs. We can see that in our observation wells. It’s encouraging. It’s early. We expect
within the next 18 months to have a pretty good read on the response, the reservoir response.
So I think we’re about 18 months away from really telling you something that is really meaningful.
I’ll just end and say that we’re encouraged, we’re encouraged by what we’re seeing on temperature
response, and of course we’re encouraged because there’s 12-plus billion barrels of oil in place
that we’re looking at there.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Two final questions.

One, there’s again, have been some rumors coming out talking about the Kazakhstan government
going to slap Tengiz with an export tax. This is probably ten times in the last six or seven years. I’m
wondering is there any official communication between you guys and the Kazakhstan government
on that?
The last question is that, if we look at in Gulf of Mexico Jack-St Malo, the Big Foot look like I think
those probably contract the startup maybe some time in the 2014, 2015. If the memorandum of the
drilling ban extends beyond November, how long that the drilling ban extend will – up to what day
you will start to see there is a risk on those startup dates? Thank you.
<A – George Kirkland>: First, let me talk about Tengiz and statements out there. And I’m going to
cover a couple of items.
You’ve seen a media statement about the mining allotment. The mining allotment for us is very
clear in our contract. We have all rights of all sub-salt – everything below the salt in the Tengiz
geographical area. We have rights to that. We have contractual rights. It’s very straightforward in
our contract.
The media statement that I – the media words you have seen out there on the export customs duty
– there is reports of that. I will tell you, we have had some communication with the government on
that point. Once again, our contract, I think, is all – is very straightforward on custom duties like
that. They would be offset-able. And I’ll just live it that piece of it at that point – at this point.

I had two other things related to Tengiz. First off, operationally, Tengiz is running extremely well.
We’re very, very happy with SGI/SGP performance and the existing facilities.
And then maybe one last point. Our relationship – our long-term relationship with the government of
Kazakhstan, with our partners there, has been very good. We have been there 18 years. We have
had disagreements that we have always worked through very well. I think it translates to our good
performance. As a group, we have done well. That doesn’t mean we haven’t had times where we
had discussions and had to work through things.
And I believe we will see the same thing here. Our relationships will carry us. Our performance for
these 18 years I think really underscores that we can work there, and that we can work together
very well with the government and our partners.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. George, how about in the Gulf of Mexico?
<A – George Kirkland>: Oh, sorry. When you give me these multiple questions, it’s sometimes <Q – Paul Cheng>: Sorry about that.
<A – George Kirkland>: No problem. No problem.
I would tell you, if the moratorium is still held as we – is still on us, post November or December, it
will start impacting the schedule. We cannot move forward on these projects without knowing
clearly what the expectations are. So at some point, it’s going to start pushing the startup date of
these projects.
We think we’re in pretty good shape up until November. We have done FEED work. We’ve
positioned ourselves with bids on contracts. So we’ve done all the engineering and preparatory
work to be able to move forward into execution.
If this keeps sliding out in the unknowns, it will delay the projects. And frankly, for not only us but for
government and others, it will impact revenue streams, crude availability. These are all very large
projects. Remember, Jack-St Malo is roughly 120 to 150,000 barrel a day oil development. So very
significant projects.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Very good. Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Good morning. It’s Faisel from Citi.
<A – George Kirkland>: Morning.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Morning. Can you give us a little bit of an update on exploration? Any major
discoveries in the second quarter or significant ones? And what your plans are for the third quarter
here, and the fourth quarter.
<A – George Kirkland>: Okay. I tried to give a little bit of that in my prepared statement, so I’ll try
to take that and then maybe expand a little bit. We are – and I’ll start off with the impacts.

Our program in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico has been impacted significantly. We were on the
Buckskin appraisal well, and that was a very significant well for us. We wanted that one drilled
where we could accelerate potential development of that prospect. We really think it’s that good
that that appraisal well would define an awful lot of the go-forward.
We had three other deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico that we wanted to drill. We were actually
on the Moccasin well when the suspension of operations occurred. We had two other deepwater
Gulf of Mexico wells, very large prospects that have now been delayed.
So from that perspective, a big part of our program on exploration was these impact-greater-than100-million-barrel-resource-size prospects. Those have been eliminated from the program this
year, so that’s – that’s worrying. That’s delaying, and we don’t have any choice. That’s where we
are on that.
Elsewhere in the world, our other deepwater drilling is moving forward, and other exploration wells
around the world are moving forward. We’re drilling the Lona well up in the east coast of Canada.
That well spudded shortly after the moratorium and after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico started, so
that well is moving – getting closer to our objective section. We have made good progress there. I
hope by the fourth quarter or third quarter call, we will be able to tell you more there.
Successes have been strong in Australia. We’re drilling a large number of wells in that focus area.
We continue to have great success there.
We’re focused on Australia in the Carnarvon Basin because not only are the discoveries significant,
if we have those discoveries, then they also move quickly to expansions of the LNG projects that
we’re doing there. So we have strong focus there. We’re putting a lot of money into Australia to try
to get to the next step on the expansions of those projects. We’ve got a well that we’ll be drilling on
the west of Shetlands in the second half, another significant well. We call it Lago Bulin.
So we’ve got several other high impact wells. But bottom line, the scale of our program, exploration
program, has been significantly impacted this year because of the moratorium in the Gulf of
Mexico.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay. Great. And then just one question on the downstream portion.
Can you give me an idea of what the absolute timing effect was in the quarter in the international
downstream business? I know you gave us the quarter over quarter variance. I was wondering if I
could get the absolute number in terms of the timing impact.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: It’s about 100 million.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Great. Thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Thanks for taking my question. Let me just press you a little on
Kazakhstan.
I appreciate the point you’re making about sort of the nature of the language of the contract, but of
course, we know from a lot of places, sanctity of contract is not always respected. So my question
is, with Tengiz and Karachaganak both under investigation this year, within just a few months, is it
your sense that Kazakhstan might be becoming just a more hostile place for western operators to
do business in?

<A – George Kirkland>: I hate to read into that far. We have had disagreements in the past.
We’ve been there, in the case of TCO, 18 years. We have worked through differences. We have
had a very positive relationship with the government. So I do – I’m very confident that we will move
through this issue.
I do look at Karachaganak – though we’re in both of those ventures, I look at them somewhat
differently. I do believe that the claims in the case of Karachaganak, some of the claims that the
government is making are things that we have got to deal with, in the sense of over-expenditures
on projects, as an example. And we are in discussions and negotiations trying to get to a rational
solution there that is appropriate, that recognizes what the issues are from the government side
and the issues from the partnership side.
So I do, from my perspective, see a difference. I see contractual differences and I see issue
differences.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Appreciate the color on that. Let me turn quickly to your European shale
gas presence.
I guess you have about a million acres in the Cerulean in Poland, and then of course you just
added Romania. What do you need to see to bring that to full-scale commercialization? And
realistically, when might be the timetable for doing that?
<A – George Kirkland>: Well, the process is going to be a standard process that we use in our
exploration. We will go in and shoot seismic. We will use this to kind of define the areas of interest
better. Then we will go in and drill wells. We will understand the shale. We will frac the shale. We
will actually do fracture tests there. And we will put the gas on production where we can understand
rates.
So it’s normal process. The first work with regards to seismic we should be doing – we will be doing
seismic in Poland this year and next year, and I expect to be in Poland some time next year also to
drilling the first wells. And then after we drill a few wells, I think we’ll have a better idea of the followon timing.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Appreciate that.
Operator: Our next question comes from Jacques Rousseau with RBC Capital.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Hi, good morning. Most of my questions have been answered, but just
one question from your presentation. On page 14, where you talked about the deep water rigs on
stand by, do you still have to pay the full rate for them, or was there some renegotiation of the
contracts there? Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah, largely – I think it’s best to assume that it’s largely the full rate.
There’s a little bit of a discount, but it’s not a material discount.
<Q – Jacques Rousseau>: Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. I think that – we’ve got one more question in the queue. We’ll
take it, if it’s a quick question.
Operator: Our final question comes from John Harlan with SG America Securities.
<Q – John Harlan>: Hi, three quick ones. How much are you spending overall, George, on
unconventional resource activities this year?
<A – George Kirkland>: Right offhand, I couldn’t tell you. It’s a combination of lease acquisition.

And I probably, frankly, would be very reluctant to tell you exactly that, because you could figure out
the acquisition costs, and everyone else could figure out acquisition costs. So maybe that’s
something I can discuss by the time we get there in March at our March meeting, and we’ll portray
it in a way that we’re not disclosing information that I don’t want to. But also we’ll kind of give you
an idea of how big a bag of money it takes to do what we want to do.
<Q – John Harlan>: Okay. Next one. In Canada, are you in the Horn River? Is that the shale gas?
<A – George Kirkland>: We’re not disclosing the location at this point in time.
<Q – John Harlan>: Okay. That’s fine. Last one for me. Obviously with the moratorium in the U.S.,
your exploration expenses have been running a little bit low versus history. Will the second quarter
rate kind of continue going forward?
<A – George Kirkland>: I wish I knew the outcome of wells. Then I would only drill the good ones.
<Q – John Harlan>: Well, true. But I’m just thinking in terms of reduced risk profile.
<A – George Kirkland>: The Australia side – the wells we drill in Australia, we continue to have
better fork performance on the risk side than what we – what we come in prior to spudding the well.
But it is so hard to forecast that.
<Q – John Harlan>: George, I was just asking U.S. I wasn’t asking globally.
<A – George Kirkland>: U.S., it’s going to make a huge impact. I’m sorry I misunderstood your
question.
<Q – John Harlan>: Thank you.
<A – George Kirkland>: The U.S., we’re just not going to have any wells drilled, it looks like, this
year. Thank you for the clarification.
<Q – John Harlan>: Thank you.
Patricia E. Yarrington, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President
Okay. I think that we’ll close off here now.
First of all, let me just say I appreciate very much your interest in the company. I appreciate
everyone’s participation on the call today, and I especially want to thank the analyst on behalf of all
the participants for their questions during this morning’s session. Thanks very much. Good-bye for
now.

Operator: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes Chevron’s Second Quarter 2010
Earnings Conference Call. You may now disconnect.
