Operator: Good morning. My name is Sean, and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron’s Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants
are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question and answer session,
and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call
is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron
Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron’s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and webcast. On
the call with me today are Mike Wirth, Executive Vice President of Downstream and Chemicals;
and Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron’s
financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2010. We’ll refer to the slides that are
available on Chevron’s website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections,
and other forward-looking statements, and I ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide
2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s third quarter earnings
were $3.8 billion or $1.87 per diluted share. Our third quarter 2010 earnings were flat compared to
third quarter 2009. Compared to the second quarter 2010, earnings fell 30%. Jeanette will discuss
the sequential earnings variance shortly. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was
about 16%. Total debt at the end the quarter was 10.6 billion, and our debt ratio was 9.4%. Total
cash at the end of the quarter was 14.5 billion, and this was after a $550 million pension
contribution. Third quarter was our strongest cash generation quarter since third quarter 2008.
As you will see in the remainder of our presentation, our third quarter earnings were negatively
impacted by several large items, which had no corresponding impact on cash. A prime example
here is foreign exchange. The quarter’s earnings included almost 370 million in foreign exchange
losses, which were simply balance sheet translation effects.
In July, our board of directors approved a new share repurchase program. As previously
announced, we will begin repurchases in the fourth quarter here. We are targeting a repurchase
rate between $500 million and $1 billion per quarter. And in the fourth quarter, we expect to
repurchase $750 million of our shares.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.

Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations
Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 4, I will compare results of third quarter 2010 with second quarter
2010. As a reminder, our earnings release compares third quarter 2010 with the same quarter a
year ago.
Third quarter earnings decreased 1.6 billion from the second quarter. Results for all segments
dropped between periods. Upstream earnings were 978 million lower, largely due to a unfavorable
foreign currency variance and higher exploration expenses. Third quarter Downstream results were
410 million lower, driven by adverse foreign currency and timing variances. The other bar largely
reflects the unfavorable trend in corporate tax items.
On slide 5, our U.S. Upstream earnings for the third quarter were 144 million lower than the second
quarter’s results. Crude oil realizations reduced earnings by 55 million. Chevron’s U.S. crude
realizations fell about $2 per barrel between consecutive quarters, slightly more than the 2%
change in WTI spot prices. Natural gas realizations were flat between periods. Higher operating
expenses decreased earnings by 35 million between periods, primarily due to impacts from the Gulf
of Mexico drilling moratorium. The other bar represents a decrease of 54 million, which is
comprised of a number of unrelated items, including higher asset impairment charges.
Turning to slide 6, International Upstream earnings were down 834 million compared with the
second quarter. Realizations reduced earnings by 40 million, with lower liquids realizations partially
offset by higher natural gas realizations. Our average liquids realizations decreased 2% between
quarters, in line with the decrease in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations improved
8% between quarters. Lower listings decreased earnings by 115 million. For the third quarter, we
were under-lifted by over 3%, bringing the year-to-date position to slightly over 1% under-lifted.
Higher exploration expense reduced earnings by 210 million due to well write-offs in Turkey and
Canada. An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects lowered earnings between quarters by
350 million. The second quarter had a gain of about 100 million compared to a 250 million loss in
the third quarter. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher depreciation
and lower pipeline and sulfur earnings.

In the interim update, we forecast 200 million of discrete items in the International Upstream
segment. These items include an out-of-period depreciation adjustment and a equity
redetermination of a field covering multiple leases. The depreciation adjustment covered multiple
years and was not material in any year. These items were either non-cash or cash neutral.
Slide 7 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron’s worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 8,000 barrels per day between quarters. Price changes had a modest effect
on volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts in the third quarter, increasing
production about 2,000 barrels per day. The average WTI price declined about $1.75 per barrel
between quarters. Base business production decreased 30,000 barrels per day between quarters,
mainly due to planned turnarounds in Europe and normal field declines, partly offset by higher
demand in Thailand. As shown in the green bar, contributions for major capital projects increased
third quarter production by 20,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by lower planned shutdown
activities at Tengiz in Kazakhstan.
Before I turn to the Downstream results, I’d like to note that our Upstream adjusted earnings for the
quarter were $14.65 per barrel. Based on preliminary competitor results announced to date, we
continue to lead our peer group on this metric for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Turning to slide 8, U.S. Downstream earnings fell 84 million in the third quarter. Indicator margins
reduced earnings by 60 million. Gulf Coast refining indicator margins fell by 20% due to tempered
demand growth and high inventories. West Coast refining indicator margins were relatively flat.
Actual margin capture and higher volumes added a small increase to earnings. The Other bar
consists of several unrelated items, including unfavorable mark-to-market effects on open paper,
partly offset by better core trading results.
International Downstream earnings were also lower, decreasing 326 million from second quarter’s
results. Higher margins and volumes benefited earnings by 50 million, with each contributing about
half the variance. Improved margins in Asia and Canada were partly offset by declines in Europe.
Volumes were also higher in the third quarter, in part due to the absence of second quarter planned
maintenance at our Cape Town refinery. An adverse swing in foreign currency effects reduced
earnings by 250 million. Second quarter included a 130 million gain, while third quarter had a 120
million loss. Timing effects represented 180 million negative variance between quarters, reflecting
inventory revaluation and unfavorable mark-to-market effects on open paper tied to underlying
physical positions.
In the second quarter, WTI prices moved down from the beginning to the end of the quarter,
generating a paper gain. In the third quarter, WTI prices moved up from the beginning to the end of
the quarter, generating a paper loss. The Other bar is comprised of several unrelated items,
including better core trading results and a favorable OpEx variance due to the absence of the
second quarter planned turnaround at Cape Town.
Slide 10 covers All Other. Third quarter net charges were 361 million compared to a net 108 million
charge in the second quarter, an increase of 253 million between quarters. An unfavorable swing in
corporate tax items resulted in a 259 million variance. Corporate charges were modestly lower in
the third quarter. On a year-to-date basis, the segment has net charges of approximately 850
million. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in
the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.
Mike is now going to provide an update on our Downstream business. Mike?

Michael K. Wirth, Executive Vice President, Downstream and Chemicals

Thanks, Jeanette. I’m pleased to have the opportunity to update everyone on the progress we’ve
made in restructuring Downstream and improving performance.
Just a quick comment on the results Jeanette just covered. We’ve had a good quarter, and in fact,
a good nine months, especially given the amount of change under way. Our financial results have
improved markedly from last year due to good execution in the base business and steady progress
on the improvement initiatives we’ve undertaken. And while the benefits from some of those
improvements are reflected in our results, others are only beginning to appear now, and the full
effects should be seen in the coming quarters.
I’m especially proud of our continued strong performance in the areas of safety and reliability.
Through nine months, Downstream is experiencing its safest year ever. In terms of reliability, the
utilization of our refinery units continues to be high, as it has been for the last several years. I’d like
to share some details on our restructuring efforts and major capital projects, both of which are right
on track.
Please turn to slide 12. As I told you in March, our focus is on improving returns. I committed to
delivering operational excellence in our base business while high-grading our portfolio, reducing
costs, and improving revenues. At the end of September, a new, leaner organizational structure
was in place. Every employee knows their status in the new organization. We expect to meet our
target of 2,000 workforce reductions by the end of 2010.
We captured $275 million in improvement in our refining system versus our 2008 Solomon
baseline. Most of this comes through cost reductions, including reduced contractor counts and less
employee overtime due to increased work productivity, and renegotiated contracts for materials,
chemicals, and contract labor. We’re also increasing refinery profitability through improved energy
efficiency, better yield optimization, and tighter blending tolerances to reduce specification
giveaway.
Turning to slide 13 – oops, excuse me. I’ve got a little more here. We’ve also taken action to highgrade our portfolio to create a simpler footprint and improve focus and efficiency. We completed the
previously announced market exit from 12 states in the Eastern U.S. We’ve closed the sale and
transitioned operations of four terminals and are continuing negotiations on nine others. Sales
agreements have been signed for our businesses in eight African countries. Some of these could
close as early as the fourth quarter, and the balance will close in 2011.
Earlier this month, we announced the sale of our minority interest in the Colonial Pipeline Company
to KKR. You’ll see the financial impact of this sale in fourth quarter results. And divestiture efforts
are in progress for assets in Europe, the Caribbean, and selected countries in Central America.
Data rooms are currently open and are being accessed by potential bidders. And we’re close to
finalizing a sales agreement for our businesses in the western Caribbean and parts of Central
America. We’ll continue to keep you advised as these transactions materialize.
Now turning to slide 13. Capital discipline is an essential part of our commitment to improve returns.
Our 2010 capital budget is 23% lower than it was in 2009, and I expect we’ll come in even further
below that number. Having said that, we do have a few key projects under way that I’d like to
update you on. The Ras Laffan Olefins Complex, which is a greenfield world-scale ethylene cracker
in Qatar, was started up successfully in the second quarter of this year. In Yeosu, South Korea, a
new heavy oil hydrocracker will lower feedstock costs and increase high-value product yield. This
project was mechanically complete in June, two months ahead of schedule, and came onstream in
the third quarter. The Pascagoula Continuous Catalytic Reformer project, which will enhance
reliability and performance, has reached mechanical completion and is in final commissioning. And
the Saudi Polymer Company project, another greenfield world-scale ethylene cracker with
derivative units, is on track for startup in 2011.

I’d like to say a few words about the two chemical projects. Chevron Phillips Chemical Company
has developed these Middle East ventures based on attractive feedstock terms, world-class
economies of scale, strong partner relations, and excellent project execution. They’ll be coming
online into what we expect to be the beginning of an up cycle, and they should perform well in the
years ahead.
So in summary, I’m pleased to report the progress we’ve made on our restructuring to improve
performance and to deliver on our commitment to improve returns.
With that, I’d like to turn it back over to Pat.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Mike.
Now turning to slide 14. I’d like to close with a recap of Chevron’s strategic highlights during the
third quarter. We continued our record-setting trend in safety performance. Mike provided you with
an update of our Downstream restructuring, which is on track and progressing well. In our
Upstream business, we had a number of accomplishments in the third quarter. We continued our
exploration success in Australia, with natural gas discoveries at Acme and Brederode. These
discoveries will further contribute to expansion opportunities for Gorgon and Wheatstone. We
acquired exploration acreage in several new prospective deepwater basins: offshore Liberia,
China’s Pearl River Mouth Basin, and the Turkish sector of the Black Sea. These are large blocks,
and the combined total exploratory acreage exceeds 20,000 square miles or 53,000 square
kilometers.
And finally, we sanctioned two deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico. The Tahiti 2 project will
drill two additional producing wells and three additional water injection wells to extend Tahiti’s peak
production and increase ultimate recovery. We received a permit to drill a water injection well at
Tahiti and began drilling there with the Discoverer Clear Leader in late September. We also
authorized a $7.5 billion Jack/St. Malo development. This will be Chevron’s first operated project in
the Lower Tertiary. The development is a semi-submersible floating production facility hub in 7,000
feet of water with multiple subsea tie-backs. The Jack/St. Malo fields are estimated to contain
combined total recoverable resources in excess of 500 million oil equivalent barrels. We do not
expect to book proof reserves for this project in 2010.
We are pleased that the drilling moratorium has been lifted. This is the first step needed to return
thousands of people to work and to begin drilling back in the Gulf. The second step is reemergence of an efficient permitting process. We have submitted one deepwater drilling permit,
and we have an active exploration and development drilling program planned for 2011. We are
actively trying to understand and address any remaining issues that the regulators may have. We
remain hopeful that drilling approvals will be received in a timely manner.
In summary, our base business is healthy and robust. We’re on track to meet our revised
production target for the year. We’re meeting key milestones and progressing our major capital
projects, and our Downstream is delivering on its restructuring commitment. Our cash generation is
superb, giving us the flexibility to reinvest in our business and return immediate value to our
shareholders through a growing dividend stream and share repurchases. We are certainly
executing on all of our key strategies.

So that concludes our prepared remarks, and now I’m happy to open up the floor for any of your
questions. Sean, please open up the line.
Operator: Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Evan Calio with
Morgan Stanley.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Hi, good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my call. Since Mike’s this quarter’s
special guest, I’m going to start with a question on the Downstream. Mike, could you update us on
the sale process for Pembroke or how it’s shaping up, interest level exceed expectations and when
you expect it might close? And then any update on Hawaii, you didn’t mention Hawaii, in terms of
either sale closure or kind of renegotiation of that contract there.

<A – Michael Wirth>: Okay. You bet, Evan. I’ll start with Pembroke and remind you that there are
also additional European assets included with that, some fuels marketing in the UK, Ireland, Spain,
the Canary Islands, aviation, et cetera. We started out with a long list of bidders earlier this year
and got some strong indications of interest. We subsequently narrowed that to a shorter list of
preferred bidders and are in the process now of working with them to finalize their proposals. As I
mentioned in my comments, the data room is open and being accessed by these bidders. They
have all conducted site visits and are deep into their due diligence. We expect to see their final
proposals later here in the fourth quarter.
I can tell you the interest has been strong. This is a good refinery. It’s a 210,000-barrel-a-day facility
with good complexity, a natural deepwater port that makes the logistics just excellent for bringing in
advantaged crude and also for exporting products into global markets. And the marketing assets
are attractive as well. So it’s a good asset and a good package. It doesn’t fit with our portfolio,
which is really focused into North America and Asia, but for others who have a better fit, it’s
attractive. And we’ve got an excellent work force there. So we’ve seen strong interest from what I
consider to be good quality bidders, and the process continues. So we’ll have more to say on that
as we receive final bids and then move into negotiations.
Relative to Hawaii, as I think I mentioned in March, we had reviewed the continued operation of that
facility and alternatives to convert it to a terminal. We concluded that there wasn’t really a valuecreating move in conversion to a terminal, so we’ve continued to operate as a refinery. We have
restructured several contracts, including one critical large fuel oil contract there, to improve the
profitability of the facility. And we’ve found more optimization opportunities within our system. So
the performance of the refinery has improved since I saw you in March. Having said that, we’re still
looking at our alternatives here to return the maximum value to our shareholders, and so other
alternatives are still under consideration. We’ll have more to say about that as we reach any critical
decisions.
<Q – Evan Calio>: That’s great. Thanks, Mike. If I could have one more question. Moving to the
Upstream, I know the CapEx level elevated in 2009 when you brought on a series of material
projects that were almost 500,000 barrels a day, in Blind Faith, Agbami, Tengiz, Tahiti, Freight, and
a few others. Should we expect another CapEx increase off your 21.6 year on year with the big
project queue into 2013 through ‘15?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Yeah – and that’s a good question. And we’re not prepared at this
point to give you a new number for 2011. We customarily do that – we’re reviewing the plans right
now, and we customarily do that after we have board approval for the plans, and so that’ll be
sometime later this year or early in January. But it’s clear we are investing at a healthy pace. We do
have strong cash flows, and we have low leverage, and the breadth and depth of our queue is
extraordinary, and this gives us a lot of flexibility. Those factors combined give us a lot of flexibility
in project selection.
You mentioned, and we do have, these large projects on the horizon – Gorgon, Wheatstone,
deepwater – and we were successful here in this last quarter in particular in picking up some new
resource opportunities, and those resource opportunities will require further evaluation. So I do
think you will see our outlays go up. But our projects are staggered, and as we sift through our
opportunities, we always do an affordability overlay. And in that overlay, we take into account
commodity prices, industry costs, and different scenarios, and so this assures, in the end, that our
C&E program is affordable, even in less robust scenario situations, and that only the best projects
get funded.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Okay. That’s great. I’ll leave it there for some other folks. Thanks.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thank you. Good morning, everybody.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning.
<A – Michael Wirth>: Good morning, Doug.

<Q – Doug Leggate>: Mike, I’m also going to take advantage of you being there; and, Pat, if it’s
okay, I have a follow-up for you also. Mike, on your comments about expecting the beginning of an
up cycle, I’m just kind of curious if you could give us a little bit of color as to where your head is on
the environment right now. And if I may just jump on the Hawaii question, could you elaborate a
little bit on the fuel contract that – I think I heard you say you’ve already secured it? I was not aware
the regulator had approved it yet, but if you could give some color on that. And as I say, I have a
follow-up for Pat, please.
<A – Michael Wirth>: Okay. Yeah, so my reference to projects coming on into an up cycle was
specifically directed at the two chemicals projects that I made reference to, and we’ve actually seen
a pretty good chemicals market this year, more so in the first half than in the second half, where
margins have been softening as we’ve seen some additional capacity come online. But as we move
through the next few quarters, where we could continue to see that softening trend hold as
economies really gain traction, out into the medium term, the chemicals cycle looks as if it’s poised
for an up turn. And so we’re very pleased with the performance of our chemicals affiliates, both at
Chevron Phillips Chemical and also in Korea with GS Caltex and our wholly owned specialty
additive chemical company. And we think the fundamentals in that sector are encouraging out into
the medium term.
I want to be sure that I differentiate that from the refining segment, where I don’t share nearly as a
bullish view. In the refining sector, we continue to see pretty tepid demand growth. Some parts of
the world certainly showing decent demand growth; others are not. And the continued incursion of
mandated alternative fuels, fuel efficiency, and the addition of refining capacity, particularly in Asia
and the Middle East, will contribute, we believe, to an overhang in refining capacity for years to
come. And so on the refining side of our business, we are prepared for tough conditions for several
years out into the future, and that’s why the focus on self-help that I’ve been talking about in recent
discussions with you.
In Hawaii, the fuel oil contract, has been renegotiated. I have to tell you, Doug, I’m not current on
the state of regulatory approval. I know it’s been submitted for regulatory approval, but I’ll have to
have Jeanette get back to you with a specific answer on that, because I just don’t recall.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thanks, Mike. I have a quick one. What’s Chevron’s stance on Prop 23?
<A – Michael Wirth>: Well, we’ve taken a neutral stance on Prop 23, Doug. It’s an interesting
question. I mean, this is the first time to my knowledge that voters are actually going to speak on
climate regulation. I think the proposition really raises a legitimate issue about the impact on the
economy and on jobs. Carbon regulations will not come for free. And California has real economic
challenges, and California cannot materially impact global CO2 emissions on its own. So I think it’s
a very legitimate question that’s been put forward through this proposition. Having said that, we
have taken a neutral position on Prop 23. We have a different footprint in this state than perhaps
some others do, and this is our home. We continue to work closely with the Air Resources Board
and the governor’s staff to seek reasonable market-based solutions for carbon reduction in
California, and we’re looking at how we would meet AB 32 in the most technically feasible and costeffective manner.
It’s tough, because the final regulations are not complete, so there’s still some uncertainty out
there. But in a broader context, we’ve been working to address climate change really through a
variety of different strategies. Higher energy efficiency, which we’ve been working on really for the
last two decades, we spend a lot of money on R&D and improved technologies, focused on
renewables and energy efficiency, looking for promising and profitable opportunities in things like
our Weyerhaeuser venture, and then supporting flexible and sound policy. So we’re preparing
ourselves to deal with climate regulation and deal with it in a business context, but we have stayed
neutral on Prop 23.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: All right, thanks, Mike. My quick follow-up is for Pat. Pat, hopefully it’s a
quick one. Exploration spend was up in the third quarter. It seemed to be light in the first half of the
year. If you could give us an idea how you would expect that to trend. And also DD&A stepped up
in the third quarter. If you could help us understand what was going on there, that’d be great. Thank
you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Sure, Doug. The exploration expense certainly did move up in the third
quarter. Jeanette referenced two significant well write-offs in Turkey and Canada. I think if you look
at us year to date 2010 versus year to date 2009, you will still find, however, that our 2010 expense
factor is about 25% or so lower than year to date 2009. This tends to be a very lumpy item for us.
Some of these wells are very expensive wells. In some of these circumstances, it is pure
wildcatting. And so it’s very hard for us to predict.
On DD&A, you also saw a step up. Jeanette also mentioned some of the retroactive adjustments
that we had there. Again, year to date, 2010 versus 2009, we’re seeing higher impacts associated
with rates, but also higher production.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Okay. So that DD&A rate is probably a good go forward number, Pat, or is
the trend still higher?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Well, we did mention the – it was an out-of-period adjustment <A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right, right.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: – so the vast majority of that increase would not be going forward.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Great. Thanks a lot.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Hi, guys. Again, I’d like to echo, Mike, thanks for making the effort to come on
the call, and we appreciate Chevron tending always to have an executive available to answer
questions. Thank you.
Mike, a very specific one, having said all that, which is how much CO2 do you emit in California, I
wondered? And secondly, could you talk a little bit more about the Asian oil market in general? I
know you guys have a huge footprint there. I’d just be very interested by any observations you have
on how market dynamics are shifting, both from the supply side in terms of refining capacity,
availability, and crude use, and also on the demand side. Thanks.
<A – Michael Wirth>: Yeah, Paul, on your first question, on carbon emissions in California, I’d
point you to our Corporate Responsibility Report, where we make a lot of disclosures, and
everything that we publicly disclose on carbon is in there, and I don’t have a copy in front of me
right now. We’ve got both upstream and downstream operations here, so I’d just point you to that.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Understood.
<A – Michael Wirth>: On Asia, it is certainly the most optimistic part of the world in terms of
economic growth. I’ve recently been over there and visited multiple countries. I will tell you it is not
homogenous by any means. There is a strongly growing Asia that is really represented by China,
primarily, but also a number of other economies. Singapore is exceptionally strong, Vietnam is
strong, so there’s a very rapidly growing Asia where we see strong demand for our products.
There’s a modestly growing Asia, which is still pretty attractive, and that area markets like Malaysia,
Pakistan, Taiwan, where we see growth, and it’s good growth, but it’s not as strong as you would
see in China in some of the others. And then there’s a part of Asia that doesn’t look a heck of a lot
better than the U.S. And growth is negative still in Japan and fairly flattish in places like South
Korea or the Philippines or Thailand.
And so we really have exposure to a number of those markets, and we have the ability to try to
optimize our refinery production and our supply activities into those markets that have the strongest
growth characteristics, the best margin opportunities, and try to mitigate some of the exposure to
the weaker markets and optimize there. And so I think increasingly, we all need to be paying
attention to Asia in our business, because it is really where the growth will occur. But the key point I
think is that there are many different countries in Asia in there. Economic circumstances vary pretty
dramatically.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: How are you finding the supply side in terms of shutdowns? I’m thinking of
Japan, maybe net some loss of capacity in China and also low utilization rates perhaps amongst
some of the players.
<A – Michael Wirth>: Yeah, we certainly have seen some announced intentions to shut in capacity
in the countries you referenced, Japan and China. Frankly, I think these tend to occur at the
margin. And as you look at some of the teakettle refineries in China or some of the changes in
Japan, you also have to look at some of the big new builds in China, the capacity that’s pretty fresh,
new in India; Vietnam has brought on new refining capacity. And so net, the capacity is going up,
not down in Asia. And even with some economic utilization cutbacks and turnarounds, Asia’s long,
and the world’s long. And so I think we really do need demand growth to steadily chew into that.
Perhaps some projects will be delayed that haven’t started construction at this point, and some
slow and gradual rationalization. But as I mentioned earlier, we’re not banking on a rapid
rationalization of the industry and a return to tighter supply and demand balances anytime soon.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Great, thanks. And then if I could have an Upstream one, you’d mentioned
there’s an impact obviously from the moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico, but you’ve submitted a
permit. I was wondering if you could be a little bit more specific about the volume impact that that’s
having right now. I guess it’s an accelerating effect with decline rates. And I just wondered if we
could somehow get a sense of when you think you may be able to resume? For example, how long
it would be before you resumed activity after you receive the permit? Or if there’s any way you can
frame for us how long you think it’ll be before you resume. Thanks a lot.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Sure, Paul. In terms of the impact in the quarter – or really, let me just
talk about the second half of the year. We are estimating a volume impact somewhere less than
10,000 barrels a day. And of course we’ve got operating expense impacts that Jeanette referenced
as well. With the moratorium lifted, as soon as we get back to having permits actually authorized,
then of course those effects will become muted.
It’s very hard, Paul, for us to say exactly how long it will take for the permits to be authorized. We’re
working very aggressively with the BOEM to understand what their uncertainties are and to try to
work through that very, very quickly. As I did mention, we are doing the Tahiti water injection well.
So there’s some progress, but I think it’s going to be slow. And we’re hopeful in the next several
weeks, few weeks, couple of months, that we’ll have a better indication of how long exactly it will
take to get through the permitting process.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Is there a very serious potential impact on volumes for next year, at least in
this portion of your Gulf of Mexico volumes, say for example if there was no more activity in the
next year?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Paul, it’s really too early for us to give an indication of that. I mean,
we’re right in the midst of trying to get things back to work.
<Q – Paul Sankey>: Yeah, good luck with that. Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Hey, guys.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Hi, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Good morning. If I could have two questions for Mike and maybe one for either
Jeanette or Pat.
Mike, I think historically you guys looking at Asia as a major core market for you because of the
growth, but on the other hand, as you indicate, there’s enough new capacity coming up, and a lot of
times that may be driven by certain national pact loyalty. And so while that demand is growing,
capacity seems to be growing even at a faster clip. And so does that change your view of the
attractiveness of Asia as your core market?
And the second question is on the chemical. Saudi Arabia looks like now they are already short in
their domestic as a point. Do you have a long-term feedstock gas price contract for the next 20
years or that if you – I don’t need to know the exact term, but if you can give us some idea of that. I
mean, how sustainable is your cost advantage on there? And also in chemical, do you believe that
the joint venture structure is the best on a going-forward, or that it will be better off there to be
owned by the single parties?
<A – Michael Wirth>: Okay. So I think there were three questions there. The first one...
<Q – Paul Cheng>: I tried to squeeze it into two.
<A – Michael Wirth>: Okay. That was well done, Paul. On the attractiveness of Asia, I think you
really have to look at this in a broad sweep of time, and long-term, this is – the next several
decades, I think, are the decades where Asia will move into a very prominent role in the global
economy. And there will be attractive opportunities to participate in that. We aren’t going to jump
into projects just to be in Asia and invest there. We need to have profitable investments, and
particularly in the Downstream and Chemicals business, we are keenly aware of the realities of a
margin-based business and supply and demand. And so we’ll be very thoughtful in terms of
anything we would do, and certainly as I said over the near to medium term, we’re expecting some
pretty tough sledding, and frankly you’re seeing others say the same things, and some begin to
behave that way as projects have slowed down and the like. And so we’re not going to plow into
things just to be there. We’ve got a good, strong position right now. We can optimize that position
and look for the right kinds of opportunities over time to profitably participate in that growth, and so I
think it’s still an attractive market to us, but we’re going to be – we’re going to be prudent in terms of
how we participate in growth.
On your question relative to Saudi Arabia and feedstock for our ethylene cracker, I can tell you we
do have a long-term feedstock arrangement that underpins that investment, and I won’t go into the
specifics on that, but we do indeed have an agreement there that gives us attractive feedstock
economics.
And, finally, on your question on the joint venture structure, as I said, we’ve been very pleased with
the performance of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company. They have, I think, a very strong track
record in their sector and have been one of the steadily improving performers in that segment. And
we’re happy with that. In terms of any alternative structures, we don’t comment on M&A or things
like that, and so I’ll stay consistent with our practice in not saying anything more.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. Just a very quick one on the Upstream. Jeanette, for the under-lift in this
quarter, say 115 million, looked like second quarter was pretty flat in terms of – or pretty balanced,
and you didn’t really have an open lever underneath. Should we assume the entire 115 million is a
result of the third quarter of the under-lift?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: So Paul, the bar that shows on that graph is comparing absolute liftings in
the second quarter to the third quarter, so it’s the value differential between those two.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Right.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: My comment about the under-lift in the quarter – so compared to
production in the quarter, we were under-lifted by 3% in the third quarter. I think I told you on last
quarter’s call in the second quarter we were about 1% over-lifted.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: So that’s only a swing between quarters.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: I see. Okay. Very good. Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Hey, Paul, this is Pat. Just wanted to go back and add one thought to
the question on the joint venture structure. We have tremendous alignment between ourselves and
Conoco, and usually when you have good alignment between the partners, things work out really
quite well.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: And the structure doesn’t become as big an issue.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you, Pat.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Good morning, guys. Had a two-parter for Mike and then one Upstream
question. Mike, I was wondering if you could give me some idea as to the total cost of the Yeosu
hydrocracker and what kind of return you expect there. And also address what you’re likely or may
be considering doing with your West Coast problem child, which I call Richmond.
On the Upstream side of the business, Pat, you might be able to respond to this. With the success
that you continue to have in terms of exploration or for Australia in the Northwestern Shelf, is any
consideration being given to scaling up Wheatstone, not just in terms of potential down the road
expansion opportunities, but to go with a much larger project right up front similar to what happened
with respect to the progression of the Gorgon project?
<A – Michael Wirth>: All right, Paul. Well, I’ll start out. On Yeosu, it’s actually a question that – I’m
not going to give you the total cost on it because actually there’s some portions of the project that
are not yet completed. So there is an FCC that’s the second part of this to take some of the gas oil
off the new vacuum column there that was started up a couple of years back. So we don’t have
costs all in, but I can tell you it’s below budget and it’s very competitive, as we benchmark through
IPA and the industry benchmarking processes. They have a consistent history of delivering projects
at very strong capital efficiency. The other thing I will tell you is it’s completely funded out of their
cash flow and from their balance sheet. We don’t inject any cash into GS Caltex.

Relative to your question on Richmond, we love all our children, whether they’re problem children
or not. And we’re continuing to work to try to find a solution there. I think since the last time that we
were together in March, the California Appeals Court has ruled on the lower court ruling on the EIR.
At the time we were together in March, we’d made our appeal, but we had not heard back. They
ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, which we continue to disagree with. But that is the ruling of the court.
Where we are right now is in discussions with various stakeholders to see if we can find some sort
of a reasonable solution here. The stakeholders include the City of Richmond, senior
representatives from both the Legislature and other political officials in the state, and the plaintiffs
on this thing. I can’t predict the outcome of the discussions. We’re trying to find a reasonable
solution that allows us to maintain a competitive facility in Richmond. We’ve been operating there
for more than 100 years, and we hope to continue to do so competitively. But there are some
realities that we have to face as well. And so the discussions have been ongoing for some time,
and we’re still hopeful that we’ll find a solution there through that path.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Okay. And just on the Wheatstone question, as you know, we’ve got a
project under way for capacity of about two trains of 4.3 million tons per year, so that gives you 8.6
million tons. We actually have plot space at Wheatstone for maybe five to six trains, but in addition
to just having the plot space, we obviously have to go after the environmental permits as well. So I
think the best answer to your question, Mark, really is that our team will be looking at what – in
looking at the gas availability that we have, the plot space that we have, the economics, and then
also the environmental issues, that will really – that combination of factors will really dictate
optimum expansion at Wheatstone.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator: Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Hi, good morning.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: Good morning.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Mike, on the chemical business, I was curious given what’s gone on in the
U.S. natural gas prices, would you guys be reinvesting to process kind of more lighter-end
products? I guess how do you think about that across your whole global portfolio given where U.S.
domestic natural gas prices are and the advantaged feedstock you have here now?
<A – Michael Wirth>: Yeah, it’s a great question, Faisel. I mean, U.S. ethane crackers have a nice
advantage right now over other U.S. feedstock alternatives, and also over other European or Asian
naphtha crackers. CP Chemical’s U.S. assets can crack a lot of ethane. They’re really geared
towards a gas feedstock, and they are differentially advantaged in that regard versus other U.S.
competitors, who as a group have lower ability to crack ethane. So what we see right now are the
light crackers are really running full and the derivatives out of those units can compete pretty
favorably in export markets. And those markets have been growing. So I think in the near term, we
certainly see strong utilization and really good performance out of our existing assets.
The question as to whether or not there’s a long-term sustained investment case for new capacity
is a different question. And I think that that’s one that we need to see more evidence on the longterm sustainability and cost structure of the shale gas industry in this country, and it’s one that’s
being watched very closely. But I would say that the near-term effects have been very positive for
light crackers, and the question about future investment is one that is clearly on people’s minds. But
I don’t know that I’m ready to say anything more than that at this point.

<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay. And then if you’re looking at your global portfolio, have you shifted more
production to the U.S. and away from other parts of the world because of this lower feedstock
environment?
<A – Michael Wirth>: Well, if you were to look at the portfolio ex the startup in Qatar that I talked
about, and you see the stronger utilization in the U.S., I think the answer would be yes. But we do
have the new capacity that’s coming on in the Middle East, which is a very large – it’s a 1.3 million
ton per annum cracker. And so I think net-net, you wouldn’t necessarily see that shift because of
the impact of the new capacity in the Middle East.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay, got you. Now, an Upstream question, if I can. Can you just give us –
repeat your comments on Jack/St. Malo? Did you say you would or would not book reserves at the
end of this year?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We will not with be booking reserves at the end of this year.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay, got you. And then what’s the status of Big Foot?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We’re still hopeful of going to FID before the end of this year.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay. Great. Thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Thanks for taking my question. Just one kind of conceptual, if I may. You
guys have been pretty much the only company in your peer group to stay away from North
American shale gas, and I don’t think anybody would fault you for that at all, but my question is
what would you like to see change before pulling the trigger on some of those opportunities, or is it
just completely off the table for the foreseeable future?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We’re not opposed to shale because it’s shale gas. I think we have
expressed that because we’ve been out picking up acreage in Canada and Poland, Romania. What
we have been trying to do is have a very cost-effective entry point, and we have not found that to
be the case in the U.S. market. That’s not to say that that will never be the case, but we haven’t
found it to be the case right now. As you know, there’s a lot of spread between quality of shale
properties, and so it really is important, the asset quality that you’re acquiring.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Absolutely. And then a quick follow-up on that. In your European shale
opportunities, I guess, Poland in particular, what kind of timeline do you see for development into
2011 in terms of how many rigs you’ll allocate, et cetera?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: I don’t have the full plan on this. We’re just in the acquiring seismic,
shooting seismic at this point in time. It’s just very early days for Poland.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Okay. Very good. Thanks.
Operator: Our next question comes from John Hurlan with Société Générale.
<Q>: Yeah, hi. Just some quick ones. With the sale of the Colonial Pipeline, will you be booking a
gain? And if so, how much?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We will be booking a gain. We’ll indicate it when we get to it on our
interim update. But certainly it will be a material item for us, and we’ll call it out.
<Q>: Okay. That’s what I was wondering. With Jack/St. Malo, I know you’re not going to be booking
any reserves, but regarding the development, are you going to be fracking the wells before you flow
them, or are you going to flow and then frac them?
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: That sounds like a great question for George.
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: We’ll have to get back to you on that.
<Q>: Okay. All right. Then last one for me, you’re just starting back up again in the Gulf of Mexico,
things are going to go slow. The BOEM said that costs would rise for the industry about $183
million. I know it’s probably too early to assess, but I was wondering time-wise whether you thought
it would be kind of a 2012 event or a late 2011 event before you get a kind of PV sense of how
projects will be affected for you?
<A – Patricia Yarrington>: Right. I mean, I think we’re going to have to watch this as it unfolds.
What I would say is that a lot of the recommended changes in procedures and process, Chevron
already had and was operating to a very high standard and already had those costs essentially as
part of our way of doing business. So while there could be some incremental costs, I think of it in
terms – more in terms of delay, and a little bit of overhead burden than really anything more
substantial than that. When we look at our projects, of course, we take into account a variety of
scenarios on commodity prices, but also on costs. And our view of this cost increment that may
come from the moratorium will be very small and certainly well within the bounds of the project
economics that we already evaluate.
<Q>: Thank you.
Operator: I’m not showing any other questions in the queue at this time. I’d like to turn it over to Pat
Yarrington for closing comments.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
All right. Well, I want to thank everybody for being on the call today. We do appreciate everyone’s
participation, and I especially want to thank the analysts who – on behalf of all the participants – for
their questions. Thanks very much. Appreciate your interest in Chevron. Goodbye.
Operator: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron’s Third Quarter 2010
Earnings Conference Call. You may now disconnect.
