Operator: Good morning. My name is Shawn and I’ll be your conference facilitator today. Welcome
to Chevron’s fourth quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in listenonly mode. After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and
instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator instructions]. As a reminder this conference call is being recorded. I’ll now turn the
conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John
Watson. Please go ahead.

John S. Watson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Okay, thanks Shawn. Welcome to Chevron’s fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our CFO; and Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of
Investor Relations.

Our focus today is on our financial and operating results for the fourth quarter of 2010 and we’ll
refer to the slides that are available on our website. Of course before we get started please be
reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking
statements and we ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.
I would like to share some of our strategic accomplishments for 2010 which are located on slide 3.
I’ll begin with our safety performance. This past year we achieved our safest year ever. Again, I
might add, our safest year ever with both our upstream and downstream operations setting new
records. We’re very proud of our world-class safety performance and it will continue to underpin
everything we do.
In the upstream, our achievements were many. We exceeded our production growth guidance
delivering 2% growth for the year. We progressed a number of key projects. We sanctioned three
deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico along with the Papa-Terra project in Brazil. We also
sanctioned the expansion of the Caspian Pipeline, a critical step forward for our next Tengiz
expansion in Kazakhstan.
We continued our Australian exploration success with five discoveries. This brings us to a total of
nine discoveries since we sanctioned Gorgon 18 months ago. These additional volumes will
support expansion opportunities at both Gorgon and Wheatstone.
Finally we added a significant amount of new deepwater and shale acreage to our portfolio. We’re
currently in the early phases of evaluating and planning for these new opportunities.
Looking at our downstream business we made truly great progress in the first year of a three-year
plan to improve returns. A new organization is now in place and focused on tactical plans to
improve performance.
In 2010 we sold the Colonial Pipeline, exited seven countries and most U.S. East Coast markets.
We received good value for these assets. These exits lower cost and capital employed in the
downstream allowing us to focus on markets of competitive strength.
We also made progress on our capital projects with startups in the U.S., Korea and Qatar. In all,
2010 was an excellent year, both operationally and financially. Pat will now take you through our
fourth quarter financial results, so I’ll turn it over to Pat.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Okay, thanks John. Slide four provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s
fourth quarter earnings were $5.3 billion or $2.64 per diluted share.
Comparing the fourth quarter 2010 to the same quarter a year earlier, our earnings were up over
70%. Upstream benefited from higher prices and sales volumes and downstream benefited from
higher refined product and chemical margins and asset sales.
For the year, earnings were $19 billion or $9.48 per diluted share. Return on capital employed for
the year was over 17% and our debt ratio at year end was 9.8%.
We paid 5.7 billion in dividends and 2010 marked the 23rd consecutive annual dividend increase
with an annual average growth rate over the period of 7%.
In the fourth quarter, we resumed our common stock repurchase program, repurchasing 750 million
of our shares. In the first quarter of 2011 we expect to repurchase another 750 million.
Finally, Chevron’s 2010 TSR, Total Shareholder Return, was nearly 23%. Over a five-year period
we continue to hold the number one ranking in our peer group and have outpaced the S&P 500 by
over 10%.

Now on slide 5, underscoring Chevron’s financial strength, our cash balances exceeded debt by
$5.6 billion at the end of the year. In the fourth quarter, cash from operations exceeded 8 billion.
For the full year cash from operations exceeded 31 billion, a record for the company. And this is
after nearly 1.5 billion in pension contributions.
Along with proceeds from our asset divestments, our cash flow provided excellent support for our
capital expenditures, our dividend payments and our share buyback program. Our previous
investments are generating strong earnings and cash flow, allowing us to reinvest in our project
queue while sustaining meaningful dividend growth and a share buyback program. Certainly our
strong cash flows and our solid balance sheet continue to be a competitive advantage.
Turning to slide 6, I’ll compare results of the fourth quarter 2010 with the third quarter of 2010. And
as a reminder our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2010 with the same quarter a year
ago.
Fourth quarter earnings were $1.5 billion higher than the third quarter. Results for all of the
segments improved between periods. Upstream earnings were up nearly 1.3 billion, driven by
higher oil prices and higher liftings.
Downstream results were nearly 200 million higher, gains on asset sales and favorable timing
effects were partly offset by higher operating expenses. The variance in the other bar reflects the
favorable swing in corporate tax items.
On slide 7, our U.S. upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $16 million lower than the third
quarter’s results. Realizations increased earnings by 180 million. U.S. crude realizations rose over
$7 per barrel between consecutive quarters, about $1 less than the increase in the average spot
price of WTI.
Natural gas realizations fell between quarters, in line with Henry Hub spot prices offsetting about 30
million of the liquids realization benefit.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by 30 million between periods, primarily due to
higher maintenance costs associated with multiple assets.

Inventory effects had a $60 million unfavorable impact between quarters, primarily due to year end
LIFO draw-downs and the other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items including higher
abandonment expenses and lower gas marketing earnings.
Now on slide 8, international upstream earnings were up 1.3 billion, compared with the third
quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by 600 million.
Average liquid realizations rose 14% between quarters, slightly higher than the increase in average
Brent spot prices.
Natural gas realizations increased 2% between quarters. Higher liftings, particularly in Kazakhstan
and Indonesia, increased earnings nearly 400 million. Operating expenses decreased earnings by
120 million. About half of that total was due to a new Indonesian agreement where we sell oil and
purchase natural gas. Previously we had handled this through a volume exchange. And with the
new arrangement the natural gas purchase shows up in operating expense with an identical offset
in liftings from the oil sale. There is no bottom line earnings impact and no impact on production.
As a result of this new agreement, we expect a 2011 full year increase in reported operating
expense to be approximately $1 billion.
Moving to the next bar, a favorable change in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $190
million. The fourth quarter had a small loss of about 50 million compared to a $250 million loss in
the third quarter.

These foreign exchange impacts have no direct effect on cash. They are primarily balance sheet
translation effects.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower tax, exploration and depreciation
expenses.
Slide 9, summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron’s worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production increased 48,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter. Higher prices reduced volumes
under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the current quarter, decreasing
production about 18,000 barrels a day.
The average WTI spot price increased about $9 between quarters. For the fourth quarter, each
dollar increase in WTI resulted in a 2,000 barrel a day volume reduction.
Base business production increased 32,000 barrels a day between quarters. It is unusual to see a
positive variance for this bar. The absence of third quarter planned turnarounds in Europe and
Karachaganak more than offset normal base business declines and planned maintenance in
Thailand.
Contributions from major capital projects increased fourth quarter production by 34,000 barrels a
will day, primarily driven by the ramp-up of the AOSP expansion in Canada and higher volumes in
the Gulf of Mexico.
Slide 10 compares full year 2010 net oil equivalent production to that of 2009. Production rose 2%
or 59,000 barrels a day. On a price adjusted basis we achieved a 3% production increase in 2010.
Price impacts from production sharing and variable royalty contracts decreased production by
38,000 barrels a day. The average WTI price increased about $18 in 2010 and for the full year
then, each dollar increase in WTI resulted in about a 2,000 barrel per day volume reduction.

Base business, combined with external constraints, lowered production by 73,000 barrels a day.
Record base business reliability and system optimizations limited our decline rate to about 4%, in
line with the guidance we provided earlier in the year. Also included in this bar are the favorable
production benefits from fewer security disruptions in Nigeria, and higher natural gas demand in
Asia.
Incremental production from our major capital projects contributed 173,000 barrels a day to 2010 oil
and gas production reflecting debottlenecking at Tengiz SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan, and a full year of
production from Tahiti in the Gulf of Mexico and Frade in Brazil.
Now, on slide 11, compared to the third quarter, U.S. downstream earnings improved 126 million in
the fourth quarter. Indicator margins reduced earnings by $85 million. We saw stronger Gulf Coast
refining indicator margins, in part driven by seasonal heating demand. However, West Coast
margins fell by 11% reflecting the end of peak driving season and high inventory levels.
Marketing indicator margins continued to weaken in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter turnaround
activities were also a major driver in the quarter of negative $140 million earnings impact. This
came about because of lower volumes and higher operating expenses. In the fourth quarter, we
sold our interests in the Colonial Pipeline Company and in seven terminals, realizing a combined
gain of nearly 400 million.

The other bar consists of several unrelated items including lower trading and chemicals results,
offset by lower turnaround-related feedstock costs.
On slide 12, international downstream earnings were also higher, increasing $51 million from third
quarter’s results. Weakened Asian refining and marketing margins lowered earnings by 35 million.
Operating expenses increased between quarters, negatively impacting earnings by 90 million
reflecting small increases across a number of multiple expense categories.
Timing effects represented $120 million positive variance between the quarters reflecting a swing
from a negative 85 million in the third quarter to a positive 35 million in the fourth quarter.
The primary drivers were favorable year end LIFO effects and lower volumes of open paper
associated with underlying physical positions. Put another way, we simply had fewer cargos and
therefore less paper exposed to the higher prices.
The favorable swing in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by 65 million, fourth quarter’s
foreign exchange loss was about 55 million compared to the third quarter loss of 120 million.
And the other bar there includes a number of offsetting items.
Now on slide 13, fourth quarter net charges were 294 million, compared to a net of 361 million
charged in the third quarter, a decrease of 67 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $150 million benefit to earnings. Corporate
charges were $83 million higher in the fourth quarter. For the full year this segment had net charges
of 1.1 billion, we believe our quarterly guidance range of between 250 and $350 million for net
charges in this all other segment is still appropriate going forward.
And so with that I would like now turn it back over it to John for a few thoughts on 2011.

We recently announced our capital program for 2011 at $26 billion. This is about a 20% increase
from our 2010 investment of 22 billion. 85% of the program is for upstream activities primarily
related to our large multi-year projects and consistent with our well-articulated upstream growth
strategies. These include our legacy LNG projects in Western Australia and projects in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico, Africa and the Gulf of Thailand. About 11% of the planned investment is earmarked
for downstream, mostly related to maintenance and capital projects at our larger refineries.
As Pat mentioned earlier, we grew production over 2% in 2010 and exceeded both our original and
interim guidance, despite higher crude prices. Slide 11 shows our production outlook for 2011. Our
full year outlook for production in 2011 is 2.79 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, about a 1%
increase over 2010 levels.
The outlook assumes $79 per barrel, the same average price as 2010, and does not assume
OPEC curtailments, material security or market impacts. The 1% increase comes from a
combination of sustained performance from our base business and continued ramp-ups from major
capital projects.

Turning to slide 16, heading into 2011, our strategies remained very consistent and are serving our
shareholders well, we believe. In the upstream we’re on track for startup of two major capital
projects, the Platong II project in Thailand and the Agbami 2 project in Nigeria. We expect to
sanction three other major capital projects: the Wheatstone LNG project in Australia, the Vietnam
Block B gas project and the Claire Ridge project in the U.K. We’ll continue to progress our major
capital projects with keen focus on Gorgon and our deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects.
During the fourth quarter, we announced the acquisition of Atlas Energy. We look forward to the
results from the Atlas stockholders’ meeting on February 16th. We’re currently working on
integration planning. We look forward to welcoming this highly skilled team to Chevron’s family and
adding these assets to our portfolio.
In the downstream, we will continue on our path to improve returns, building on the solid foundation
that we achieved in 2010. We expect to complete a number of divestitures and market exits
consistent with our strategy to focus on downstream operations where we have competitive
strengths. We also expect to sanction our Pascagoula Base Oil Project shortly and start up our
Saudi JV chemical project this year.
Underlying all of our efforts will be a continued focus on safe, reliable operations, project execution,
capital discipline and cost structure vigilance. 2011 will be another year where we continue our
disciplined growth, continue maintaining our financial strength and continue to reward our
stockholders. And we look forward to further discussing our plans at our Security Analyst Meeting
[SAM] on March 14th in New York City.
That concludes our prepared remarks. We now welcome your questions. So Shawn, please open
the lines for those questions.

Operator: [Operator instructions]. Our first question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
<Q – Edward Westlake>: Congratulations on the strong cash flow. I guess two questions. Firstly,
as you look at your portfolio, I mean housecleaning’s always a good practice. What kind of level of
disposals are you thinking for 2011?
<A – John S. Watson>: Sure, Ed. In terms of divestitures, most of the efforts that you will see in
2011 are really following up on the work we have been doing in the downstream area. You know,
we have been pruning our portfolio chiefly of marketing assets that aren’t directly linked or supplied
through our refining network. So we have announced a series of sales and those will continue.
In addition, we have made no secret of the fact that we were going to test the market around our
U.K. refining and marketing business. And as Mike Wirth mentioned to you in the third quarter call
we have had considerable interest. And so we have said that we’ll dispose of those assets if we get
fair value. I don’t have anything to talk about specifically today other than to say that we have had a
very strong interest in those assets and so we’ll be continuing to work that opportunity.

Beyond that, most of the divestitures that you see in the upstream tend to be routine disposals for
asset at the end of their useful life. Our general view is, absent a very compelling strategic move,
there’s a lot of leakage when you sell upstream assets through tax consequences and other and so
we tend to make decisions for the long-term. But I think you could see some pruning that would be
sort of in the ordinary course of business.
<Q – Edward Westlake>: And then maybe just one follow-up. I mean obviously you are positive on
the U.S. gas demands and the position you picked up in Atlas and fracing is also helping to unlock
some of the onshore oil potential in North America and elsewhere. I mean you have got strong sort
of international exploration credentials and cash flow per barrel. What’s stopping you, I guess,
being more assertive given the cash you have got on the balance sheet in the non-conventional
area? Maybe talk through your plans.
<A – John S. Watson>: Well, when we talked about unconventionals last year at our meeting in
New York, we had indicated that we thought the prices were, frankly, a bit high at that time and that
we had had had a fairly active interest in shale gas, shale gas properties. So we have been
accumulating opportunities overseas. We have done so in Poland and Romania and Canada. And
we had said that we were looking in the United States but we had not seen the value proposition.
Well, as we progressed through the year, we saw values improve and so we did make what we
think is a good offer for Atlas Energy and that’s the kind of low cost entry that we’re looking to
make. Our first order of business is to close that transaction and we’ll look forward to the
shareholders’ vote next month.
Having said that, we’re in the business of acquiring assets. We do so through leases. We do so
through discovered resources and we do so through companies periodically. And so that effort will
continue, including in shale areas if we see the right commercial opportunities.
We try to be a little bit, we try to either be ahead of the game so that we get low cost entries or we
try to wait for the right opportunity given market effects for discovered resource or companies as
the case may be.
<Q – Edward Westlake>: Thanks.
<A – John S. Watson>: thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group. Please go ahead.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Congratulations on your results, guys.
<A – John S. Watson>: Thanks Doug.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: John, my question is on the upstream. Globally your production growth
was impressive in 2010 when you consider your output would have risen 4% before price effects
and it did rise by 2% with price effects and that’s after the 7% gain in 2009. As you pointed out both
of these numbers were well ahead of expectations and so I wanted to see why you believe the
upstream segment has been able to consistently surpass expectations in recent years? Meaning,
during the past couple of years price effects were kind of a neutral factor which implies that external
effects, stronger base business and/or better performance on new projects drove the surprise in
relation to expectations. So I just wanted to see if you could provide additional insight into some of
the things that might be driving this performance.
<A – John S. Watson>: Well, Doug, thanks for the comments. I think we have had a very good
run, you know, as you point out. Actually over the last five years we have hit the target that we laid
out for the financial community for production growth. And we recognize that that’s helped our
credibility and we’re focused on doing the same thing again.

In terms of why that’s happened I think it is a combination of things. I think I would start with the
people and the leadership that we have got. George Kirkland and his leadership team are simply
terrific and do a great job. They are supported by a technology organization, a project execution
organization that works very well. Our business model has strong leaders on the ground supported
by functional groups and we think that that works very well.
Now it helps to have good assets in our portfolio. And of course we think that we have those. We
think we have those as well. You saw that we had some nice gains in Kazakhstan, the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere last year.
The final thing that I – or one other thing I would mention is we talk a lot about our base business
work. That isn’t quite as glamorous as perhaps as some of the major capital projects. But the
blocking and tackling around well reliability, maintenance, facilities debottlenecking, etcetera, has
really been outstanding. And that initiative really moved forward in the middle part of this last
decade and George and his team with the support of many throughout the organization have just
done an outstanding job. And you know, I give them a lot of credit for the work that’s gone on.
And you know, we have really made progress by production efficiency or other internal measures
that we use to track that and we’re looking forward to sustaining it and finding new ways to do even
better. But those would be the things I would highlight.
<Q – Douglas Terreson>: Okay. Great job. Thanks a lot.
<A – John S. Watson>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Good morning, guys.
<A – John S. Watson>: Good morning.
<Q – Evan Calio>: I have a question on the reserve bookings and I know that, you know, it has
been and will remain lumpy and we should see a significant impact in 2011 when Wheatstone
reaches FID [Final Investment Decision], but I was wondering if you could give some color on the
bookings and whether you booked anything on the GOM [Gulf of Mexico] projects that were
sanctioned: Tahiti, Big Foot and Jack/St. Malo and whether those bookings were influenced by
either inactivity or you know SEC technical definitions, particularly regarding Jack.
<A – John S. Watson>: Yes, it is a good question on this technical subject. I think your premise is
pretty good. You know, the previous five years we had more than replaced reserves. And it is a
lumpy and it is a function of a couple of things. It is a function primarily of major capital project
timing. I mean there are price effects, so our reserve replacement rate was 24%. It would have
been something like 37% without price effects. But beyond that, it is really the timing of major
capital project bookings.
Now, if you go back some years, it was quite common that when you went to FID you had major
bookings. In this instance, we had three deepwater developments: Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot in the
Gulf of Mexico and Papa-Terra in Brazil, that based on the economics that we have run that
sanctioned the projects, and remember, these projects, our share is about $8 billion. So we felt
confident enough in the resource that was there that it would be recoverable to make those
investments.
But the volumes that we premised those projects on, which are close to 600 million barrels, we
didn’t book any of them. And we didn’t book them for the reason that you described.

There’s an economic produceability test that the SEC has under our interpretation of the rules that,
I mean, first you start with the technical qualifications for what can be booked early and typically
that limits the number of barrels and then those barrels alone, not what you ultimately expect to
recover, have to cover all the capital costs, which may include infrastructure for future expansions
and the like.
And so you get into this situation where you have to get enough sunk cost behind you before you
can book the reserves and that’s just the SEC rules and you know we live by them. But we think it
contributes to the lumpiness that you described. And you know, you can go back over the last 10
years and we have had periods that were low and periods that were very high and this happened to
be a low year. But it doesn’t – it’s not impacted by the moratorium that we have seen. It is more
impacted by the SEC rules. And you know, as you say, as we press forward with these, you know,
we’ll expect to record bookings in future years.
<Q – Evan Calio>: That’s great. Maybe a somewhat, you know, related question, in the 1%
production guidance for 2011 I know that the tricky part is forecasting the base. I believe last year
you were at a 6% base decline underlying those numbers. I was wondering if, you know, what you
are assuming there in the Gulf of Mexico activity-wise and how we can think about incremental
risks you know, either way on that guidance or even, you know, future production growth? Thanks.
<A – John S. Watson>: Yeah. I’ll make a couple of comments. First, in a broad sense, we have
seen a reduction in our base business decline rate. And from, you know, 6% or so in past years,
now into the 3 to 4% range. So I think that reflects a number of things including the progress that
we have made on our base business work.
Now as far as the Gulf of Mexico, you know, going forward, you know, maybe I’ll take a minute and
this may be a little bit longer answer than you wanted, but I would like to comment on the subject.
And you know, the progress in getting back to work has been slower than we would have expected.
There’s some maintenance work going on, but fundamentally – the moratorium’s up but they are
not issuing permits. And you know, I think they are trying to get it perfect in terms of some of the
regulations that they are putting in place and so we keep getting more thrown at us.

You know, if you reflect back on the last year, the industry and regulators have done an enormous
amount of work to try to raise the bar, if you will, on standards for all operators. I’ve made it very
clear that Chevron has operated at a high standard, but enormous progress has been made to
include prevention so that it’s, in the very unlikely event that has been well-documented, doesn’t
happen again. And we think that prevention steps have improved.
In addition, containment and clean-up is far better than it was. So we’re in much better position as
an industry than we were previously. And no company, based on the comments I’ve had from
administration officials and regulators, no company has done more to engage the government to try
to improve these standards and get us back to work. And my comment here is that you know,
time’s about up.
You know, we can operate very safely. Our industry has an outstanding safety record,
notwithstanding the terrible incident of last year. You know, our days away from work rate in the
industry is lower than the federal government’s. The fatality rates for serious incidents in the oil and
gas business is lower than most other manufacturing businesses that you could name. And we just
think that the unprecedented step of just shutting down a business has reached the point of
diminishing return and it is time to get back to work.

The administration wants to create jobs. You know, we can create thousands of them. I’m very
concerned about energy security for the country going forward. Independent experts have said that,
you know, already 300,000 barrels a day have been lost if you look out three or four years and that
number is going to grow and that’s going to represent a sizeable chunk of the spare capacity that
the industry expects to see. And that will impact prices and that will retard economic growth.
So we can operate safely. We can create jobs. We can reduce dependence on imports and I think it
is time to get back to work. But I cannot tell you how fast this is going to proceed. You know, we
seem to take a step forward and then take a step back with difficulties in interpreting the new NTLs
[Notices to Lessees] that are out there. We engage heavily, we try to be of assistance, but the
bottom line is they are not issuing permits. Until they issue permits, you know, deepwater
development, both exploration and development wells for the most part won’t be drilled. And I wish
I could give you precise timing, but I can’t.
So that’s a long-winded answer to your question, but that’s the best I can give you.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Does your guidance assume activity in 2011?
<A – John S. Watson>: It does. It does assume that. We have made assumptions about when we
might get back to work. That’s in there. And you know, there are development wells that are being –
that we expect to drill. There’s activity on the shelf that we have some expectations for. More
importantly, exploration wells won’t be drilled. We suspended wells that were in progress last year.
We would like to finish those and move on to others.
You know, in the grand scheme of things, you know, Chevron can deal with this. You know, it cost
us about $100 million or so after-tax last year. We can deal with this in the short run. But it’s very
difficult on small companies, very difficult on service providers. We’re seeing rigs leave the area
and we just think it is – that time’s about up and we need to get back to work. It is the right thing for
the country.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Excellent. Thank you for sharing.
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Evan I just want to add, the $100 million is really the op expense
only impact. If you include foregone revenues, foregone production, obviously it is much larger than
that.
<A – John S. Watson>: Yeah, thank you.
<Q – Evan Calio>: Understood.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Merrill Lynch.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Thank you. Good morning, John, good morning everybody.
<A – John S. Watson>: Hey, Doug.
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Good morning.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Can I try a couple John, please. Hopefully they are not too long-winded. The
first I’ll put to Pat first. Hopefully she can get the numbers ready and then I’ll give you the second
and maybe you can give me the answer to the first. The absolute tax benefits please, Pat, by
division if you have them, in the quarter? I’m trying to understand what the underlying tax rate was.
And while you figure that out; John, the question I have is really a follow-up on Evan’s question
about production. Obviously we have got a much higher oil price than any of us really expected
internationally I think is probably a fair comment. I’m not so much looking at the PSC [Production
Sharing Contract] sensitivity. I’m thinking more about cost recovery cliffs on some of the new
projects. You know, how quickly you actually move through cost recoveries such that your
underlying production obviously after a period of time is, moves to a production share.
At the same time, given what you said to Evan, what if you don’t get back to work in the Gulf? Can
you give us an indication how that might impact what the range would be perhaps on your
production outlook?
And finally, what’s going on with the base decline and are you actually putting money back into gas
projects now, which I think was originally what George had deferred capital from before?
So if you could kind of round out the production question and then maybe give the tax answer, that
would be great.
<A – John S. Watson>: Yes. You covered a lot of ground there. Let me see if I can address some
of them.
First the base decline, as I indicated, company-wide is in the 3 to 4% range.
As far as gas investments go, in the United States once we close the Atlas acquisition, there’s a
favorable carry in that agreement. So activity in the Marcellus would ramp up as had been the work
that’s being done by Atlas and planned to be done. So that will ramp up. So we will see more
drilling activity there.
As far as the Gulf of Mexico goes, you know, we have made some assumptions about when we’ll
get back to work this year. And I’m not going to get into a lot of detail on that. Now, what I would
say is if we went the whole year without activity, the number would be lower than what – than we
have put forward.
You know, we have exceeded our guidance this year for several reasons. One, the base business
results were very good. We have had a little bit higher market demand than we might have
expected. And you know, we also didn’t have the hurricane season that we thought we would have.
So you know, we factor some of these things in and a few other items and so we have had good
performance. Tengiz performed better than expected last year. So there’s some ebbs and flows
here that we take into account.
You know, in the Gulf of Mexico, you know, it will be important for us to get back to work, you know,
for us to continue drilling on the deepwater projects. We’re in a non-operating position in Perdido
and there are additional development wells to be drilled there and we have our own activity.
So it’s important to us, you know, we have assessed that in providing the guidance that we have
put forward and we’ll continue to update it as the year grinds on. So you know, I’m hopeful we’ll be
back to work. You know, we’re keeping – we have been keeping a lot of people and equipment
busy doing maintenance and other work but the deepwater progress has been slowed significantly.
On the – I think I caught most of your items there.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: The PSC cliffs is there anything we should be aware of there.
<A – John S. Watson>: I mean, we do have PSCs out there. Of course if you hit a cliff sooner,
that’s because you are making more money because prices are higher and you are recovering your
costs faster. But I’m not prepared to talk about any particular cliff or impact here with you today.
Pat, do you want to talk a little bit about taxes?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Yes, on taxes the effective tax rate for the quarter was about 39%.
You are right, it is more favorable this quarter than last quarter. A big variable that impacts the
effective tax rate for us is the foreign exchange movements. Because those really are balance
sheet translation effects, they are not taxed. And so depending upon the size of the loss or the size
of the gain that you have in any particular quarter, it obviously moves the effective tax rate.
So I would just say I’m not – that really is the primary driver between the quarters. The other thing
that has occurred here is, as we earn more out of our downstream segment, typically it is coming
from lower tax jurisdictions and so you get a mix effect.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: Very quick follow-up if I may, sorry. So basically does that get allocated to
any particular division? And sorry John very quickly, can you quantify the expected contribution
from Atlas this year and I’ll leave it there? Thanks.
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: We booked the taxes in accordance with the segment where the
earnings are accrued. The taxes are accrued there as well. Foreign exchange is also in the
segments.
<A – John S. Watson>: I’m not going to say much about Atlas. We’re in a very sensitive time
period right now leading up to their shareholder vote. You know, with a successful shareholder
vote, we’ll close the transaction and we’ll be happy to give you more information at that point.
<Q – Doug Leggate>: All right. Thanks very much.
<A – John S. Watson>: Thank you. Okay, next question.
Operator: Thank you our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you. Good morning, guys.
<A – John S. Watson>: Hey Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: John, wanted to follow up on the Gulf of Mexico. To the event unfortunately
that if the current impasse continue, at what point, let’s say you said a year from now, two years
from now, your development cycle time for the Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot, all of them, that is currently
assumed to be 2014 startup, at what point that is thought to have a question mark on those startup
date?
<A – John S. Watson>: Yes. Paul, the impact on the big projects, I mean construction, you know,
we have gone to FID, the facilities work is proceeding. The issue really isn’t that it will impact
startup date. The issue is really how many wells will come online at startup. Because we have three
deepwater rigs and we use those rigs for exploration and development. And so we’ll have to
prioritize once we get back to work, which wells we drill.
And we’ll make those choices. But obviously the fewer wells you drill, some of those could be
development wells and so it would push off the ramp-up, not so much the first oil date. So Jack/St.
Malo is on track for the 2014 startup. And I don’t expect that to be impacted. Only the drilling
schedule ramp-up would be the impact.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay. So you don’t think any of the changes in the regulations will impact your
design work and have to go back and redo and correspondingly – you don’t think there’s any way
will impact the startup, it is just at what pace you can ramp up or what at pace you start up at?
<A – John S. Watson>: We’re incorporating some design changes now that have come about. I
wouldn’t advertise these as being material. We have been operating at a very high standard
already. And so we have not been significantly impacted, but there are some changes.
You know, we can give you a lot more granularity on schedule and information on some of these at
our SAM meeting. Jeanette wants to add something here.
<A – Jeanette Ourada>: We have said before that in 2011 that the development drilling we have
planned in the Gulf of Mexico, it is very, it is towards the end of the year. And we did that
intentionally.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Okay, very good.
John, on the Atlas Energy, what is your overarching plan that you look at in the non-conventional
play in the U.S.? I mean do you get a sort of a bridgehead way now and how aggressive that you
think you want to increase the exposure in there? And also when we’re looking at some of your
peers in the recent year period aggressively moving into the non-conventional liquid plays, whether
it is in the Eagle Ford or Bakken and in some ways I think Chevron is noticeable – a little bit left
behind or missing in there. So do you think it is a bit too late for you guys to go into those, or that
you think that you just have to wait and maybe opportunity will show up?
<A – John S. Watson>: Well, I think you were first talking about unconventional gas and you
know, we’ll – we feel good about the Atlas acquisition. You know, it is a low cost resource base and
we’ll continue to, once we get that transaction closed we feel very good about it. We feel
particularly good about the economics given the carry that’s in place so we’ll continue there. And
we continue to look for other opportunities.
Up to now we have not been big on, as big on the liquid side. But you know, in general, if you look
at the unconventional business in the United States, it’s been developed by the independents and
smaller companies. The reason for that is that there’s a great deal of land work that has to be done
and so you are going farm to farm or, you know, property owner to property owner. It is a very labor
intensive process and so you have seen small companies make those moves.
In due course, you know, Chevron has the opportunity to come in. We do think we have something
to offer from a technology point of view. And we’ll continue to evaluate the opportunities that we see
on either gas or liquids. I would note that we have been pretty active internationally, as I
commented earlier, adding acreage and we continue to look for new opportunities.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: A final question for me if I could. In the U.S. downstream, you are excluding
the asset sales gain, you earned $75 million. Chemical earning is up and based on what your
partner Conoco report, it seems to suggest the U.S. R&M [Refining and Marketing] actually lost
quite a bit of money in the quarter. In some way that is surprising because the market condition,
quite frankly, is not really that bad in the fourth quarter.
I understand you have downtime but looking at your total throughput it is not necessarily much
worse than the other quarter in the last two years. So is it means that your operation in the refining
basically that will lose money in the kind of market condition we saw in the fourth quarter?
<A>: Let me add a couple of comments and then I’ll let Pat offer a few things.
The first comment I’ll make is we have been very pleased with our chemical business. It was a
decade ago that we put together Chevron Phillips Chemical Company and it’s far exceeded the
expectations that I had at that time and so it has been profitable, we also have an additives
business that’s been successful as well. And we did put these businesses together in the last year
so that Mike Wirth and his team really can make the right manufacturing and marketing decisions of
the – for all the molecules together in the downstream and chemicals business and that’s gone
quite well.

I’ll let Pat comment a little bit on profitability noting that margins were different on the Gulf Coast
and West Coast.
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Right, I mean I think it was, I think the primary thing you want to take
into account here for the fourth quarter were the impact of turnarounds. It was a significant
turnaround quarter. That is not unusual in the fourth quarter of the year. Actually, it is not unusual in
the first quarter of the year either. That significantly impacted the segment results for the basic
R&M.
<A – John S. Watson>: Mike and his team have done a fantastic job this year, this last year of
delivering on the things that he outlined last year. We have gone through some difficult times with
employees. But we have really exceeded our expectations in that regard. Capturing benefits and
we have, as I noted earlier made some of the portfolio moves. Mike will give you a lot more update
on this but our downstream business is doing well and on track to deliver the improvements and
returns that he outlined. We have got a three-year plan to do that and we’re ahead of pace for the
first year.
<Q – Paul Cheng>: Thank you.
<A – John S. Watson>: Sure. We’ll go on to – next question.
Operator: Thank you. Our next question comes from Jason Gammel of Macquarie. Please go
ahead.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Thank you. I wanted to ask about a couple of the capital projects that will
be coming up for Final Investment Decision. First of all, in Wheatstone, John, do you think you have
enough contracted off-take already to be able to move forward with the project or are incremental
off-take contracts still necessary for FID? And are you seeing any cost pressures at Gorgon that
would potentially cause you to go back and look at your estimates again or even to delay the final
investment decision so as to not be to be competing with your own project?
<A – John S. Watson>: Yeah thanks, Jason, a couple of fair questions there. On the off-take
agreements, we have been really pleased with the marketing that we have been doing for both
Gorgon and Wheatstone. In fact, we announced another agreement very recently. We’re at the 80
90% level for both projects in terms of agreements that we have in place. And we certainly don’t
view sales agreements as an impediment to a final investment decision for Wheatstone.
In terms of cost pressures, we’re going through the engineering work now. And we expect, based
on what we’re seeing, that we’ll have a good handle on costs sufficient to make a final investment
decision later in the year.
We’re obviously very close to what’s happening in the markets because of our position at Gorgon.
You know, Gorgon is a $37 billion project but we have let contracts totaling about 25 billion so far.
So we have a good idea what’s in the marketplace. We’re monitoring it well.
And I don’t expect that those cost pressures, which are real, will impact final investment decision
since we have got it, we have got a pretty good idea of where they come from and how to mitigate
them.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: That’s great. And then with the decision now to expand the Caspian
Pipeline, and given that you are seeing just tremendous reservoir performance at Tengiz, when
would you envision that you would be looking for sanctioning the next phase of Tengiz expansion?
<A – John S. Watson>: Well, a couple of comments. First it is both reservoir and facilities
performance at Tengiz that has been very good. In terms of sanctioning it, I think the first thing’s
first. We’ll make a FEED [Front End Engineering and Design] decision in 2011 and we’ll give you a
little more detail in March when we come back on maybe what the timing would be.
I’ll say this. We think this, we learned a lot from the first expansion project. The technology is now
proven. It is actually a simpler project than the expansion we just completed. And I won’t say it is a
simple project but it is simpler in scope given what we have learned about injection technology
during that time period.
So FEED very soon and then FID following.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Do you think Tengiz eventually gets to a million barrels a day?
<A – John S. Watson>: [Laughter]. I’ll just say that we have another nice expansion coming and I’ll
let – I’ll let George give you a little bit of update on that but certainly there’s more there than the
over 600,000 barrels a day that we have been producing on 100% basis recently. Thanks.
<Q – Jason Gammel>: Fair enough. Thanks John.
<A – John S. Watson>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman of Benchmark Group.
<A – John S. Watson>: Hey Mark.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Good morning, guys, a couple of quick specific things. John, can you give us
a number for non-PSC variable royalty related revisions implicit in the reserve numbers?
<A – John S. Watson>: No. Mark I’m not trying to be cagey, we just don’t give out the, you know,
that level of information. You know, we talked about the price effect taking about 13 points off the
replacement rate but we have not gotten into the specifics of the PSCs.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Let me try another one.
Pat, in your comments you referenced, I think on several occasions, in terms of PSC sensitivity this
2000 equivalents per day per dollar kind of number. Would you expect that to change in 2011 at all
one way or the other?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: You know, the reason we give you the numbers, Mark, relative to
the previous historical period is so that you can see what the relationship has been. I don’t know
what prices are going to be going forward. We try to give you that number. It’s been in that 2000,
1800 to 2000 barrel per WTI dollar for quite some time. I think that’s a reasonable assumption –
reasonable planning base for you going forward.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. And just one final one if I could. Give me an idea of any negative
impact of rig contracts on U.S. upstream results both in the fourth quarter and full year ‘10.
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Well, I said, we said earlier that the operating expense on an aftertax basis was, you know, $100 million or so. But that’s the, that’s predominantly the rig impact. On
a full P&L basis of course we have the lost production. And so you are really thinking of something,
couple hundred million dollars or so.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay. So the 100 million is rig cancellation charges and things like that?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: No, it is really just idled rigs. Costs associated with idled rigs.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: And you expense that?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Yes.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: And what would be the number if there were no activity in 2011, Pat?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Well, I’m not going to go there. I’m just giving you the impact of the
moratorium for us here. Both from an op expense and a total P&L standpoint.
<Q – Mark Gilman>: Okay, thanks.
<A – John S. Watson>: We have got three deepwater rigs under contract. One of them is drilling
an injection well at Tahiti right now. Mark, it will depend upon the degree to which we can put these
rigs to work.
Okay. Next question.
Operator: Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Good morning.
<A – John S. Watson>: Good morning.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: I have a few small questions. First on exploration. Can you guys give us an
update of how exploration went in the fourth quarter? I believe you were drilling the Lagavulin well
and any other wells you were drilling in the quarter.
<A – John S. Watson>: Yes, we don’t have anything to say on the Lagavulin well just yet, but you
are correct, it is drilling. We did announce a discovery in the Republic of the Congo. Our partner –
we’re a non-operating partner there. That’s certainly encouraging and then Australia, the progress
has continued with additional discoveries there. We don’t have any news obviously from the Gulf of
Mexico because we were not able to conduct any activity there. But that’s...
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Fair enough. And then just on the liftings, you mentioned you had higher
liftings in Indonesia and Kazakhstan. I take it those were – what was the quantity of overlift you
guys had in the quarter?
<A – Patricia E. Yarrington>: Yes, in the third quarter we were underlifted in excess of 3%. In the
fourth quarter we were underlifted just about 1%. And for the year we were underlifted about 1%.
<Q – Faisel Khan>: Okay, gotcha. Okay, thank you.
<A – John S. Watson>: Sure. Next question.
Operator: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Thanks for taking my question. First regarding Australia, kind of following
up on the earlier question about cost escalation, anything that’s happening in terms of project
delays that is – you know, labor shortages, et cetera, that is perhaps shifting timelines for either
Gorgon or Wheatstone as you currently see it?
<A – John S. Watson>: No it hasn’t. In the Australian press you will see things reported from time
to time. We do adjust the schedule of work. For example right now, we have got cyclones that are
going through the area. So that obviously impacts work, so you read about these adjustments but
we manage that in the context of an overall critical path set of activities and we’re on that critical
path.
Labor is certainly a significant issue to be monitored in Australia, as it is frankly with all big onshore
projects around the world. We have got good relationships with the unions. I think the best thing we
can do to maintain those relationships with the unions is communicate well and to keep the
outstanding safety record that we have, because that’s certainly a priority of the union.
But at this point we have not seen any significant shifts in activity and certainly not because of
issues involving labor.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Okay. And let me turn to Poland. Given that you will now have the inhouse expertise from Atlas, is that going to change your Polish shale gas program at all in terms of
moving personnel over or just transferring that skill set overseas?
<A – John S. Watson>: Well it is a little early to tell. As I say once we close the Atlas transaction
we’ll be in a better position to talk about that. But certainly the expertise we’re picking up -- first
Chevron has expertise. We have drilled hundreds of wells in the Piceance, tight gas wells. We are
active in the – have been active in the Haynesville, so we do have expertise. But, certainly with the
acquisition of Atlas, that will help us.
Now, we expect to drill our first well later this year actually in Poland, so as we close that
transaction we’ll assess the people that we have and I think one advantage for the people of Atlas
will be the opportunities that will be available elsewhere in the Chevron system including Poland
and overseas. So I’m hopeful that it will help us.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: And what is your current Polish acreage position at? Is it still a 1.1
million, I believe?
<A – John S. Watson>: Yes, yes it is.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov>: Okay, great. Thanks very much.
<A – John S. Watson>: Okay, one more question, thank you.
Operator: Our final question comes from Iain Reid of Jefferies.
<Q – Iain Reid>: Hi, John and Pat, thanks very much. Can I ask two questions please? In Angola
there’s quite a lot of excitement about the presalt and some blocks were awarded recently but as
far as I’m aware I didn’t see Chevron in that group of companies. I just wondered whether you
could talk about what you think about the presalt in Angola and are you going to drill that from your
existing acreage.
<A – John S. Watson>: Well, you are correct, basically in the recent lease round. You know,
pricing has been, you know, we’re very prudent in what we bid and if we’re unable to capture
opportunity because of price, so be it. I would tell you over the last few years we have participated
in some of the lease rounds. This time we didn’t capture anything. Beyond that I probably don’t
have a great deal to say other than you know we continue to ramp up Tombua-Landana there and
have had a long and very good relationship there. Our focus right now, frankly is on Angola LNG.
That project is progressing very well toward first gas. And that’s been the big focus for us recently.
<Q – Iain Reid>: So you don’t have any plans to drill any deeper wells in the basin below the
tertiary? To try and test the presalt.
<A – John S. Watson>: I don’t have anything for you right now on that. If we have got more to say
about the presalt, I’ll be sure that George covers that in March.
<Q – Iain Reid>: Okay. One other question, In Kazakhstan, you are a partner in Karachaganak
where there’s been disputes over taxes and also issues of the state company trying to push their
way into the license. Are you seeing anything of the same issues in Tengiz at the moment?
<A – John S. Watson>: Well, you are correct. There have been some concerns that have been
voiced by the government and the partners are working through that with the government. Now I’m
confident we’ll get to some resolution.
At Tengiz, from time to time we have issues that are raised, but you know, we have rigidly adhered
to the contract. We have performed very well. And we have always been able to work through any
issues without a material impact and I would say the same thing is true today. We’re held up in
Kazakhstan as the company that has best delivered on what the government has expected. So in
my visits with the President and in our relationships there, they have been very good, recognizing
that from time to time, you know, there are differences of opinion but we have been able to work
through them well. We’re in a good place in Tengiz, would be my comment.
<Q – Iain Reid>: There’s no issues of that nature to stop you further expanding Tengiz.
<A – John S. Watson>: No, no.
<Q – Iain Reid>: Okay. Okay thank you.
<A – John S. Watson>: Okay thank you. Appreciate the very good questions. Thanks, Shawn. Let
me just say that we appreciate your participation in the call. I would like to thank the analysts and I
would like to remind you we do have our Security Analysts Meeting in March and we look forward
to seeing you there. Thank you very much.
Operator: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron’s 2011 fourth quarter earnings
conference call. You may now disconnect.
