Operator: Good day, ladies and – good morning, my name is Sean and I will be your conference
facilitator. Welcome to Chevron’s first quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all
participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-andanswer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator instructions] As a reminder this
conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer from Chevron Corporation, Mr. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President
Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron’s first quarter 2011 earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Gary Luquette, President of our North American Exploration and
Production company. I’ve asked Gary to join me on the call this morning to give you an update on
our recent Atlas acquisition and Gulf of Mexico activity. Chevron, and Gary specifically, have taken
a leadership role in addressing the administration’s concerns regarding drilling in the Gulf of
Mexico. Gary served as chair of the governing body leading the joint industry task forces that have
been working to improve prevention, intervention and spill response capabilities with the goal of
getting the industry back to work.
Also on the call is Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on
Chevron’s financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2011. We will refer to the slides that
are available on Chevron’s website.
Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections
and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statements here
shown on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The company’s first quarter earnings
were $6.2 billion, or $3.09 per diluted share. Comparing first quarter 2011 to the same quarter a
year earlier, our earnings were up 36%. Upstream benefited from higher crude prices and
downstream benefited from improved margins.
Return on capital employed for the trailing twelve months was over 18%. Our debt ratio at the end
of March was 9.5%. In the first quarter, we repurchased $750 million of our shares. In the second
quarter we are increasing our repurchase rate to $1 billion.
Finally, we announced Wednesday that Chevron’s board of directors approved a $0.06 per share,
or 8.3% increase in the common stock quarterly dividend. This is our 24th consecutive year of
higher dividend payout.
Now on slide 4, cash generated from operations was nearly $10 billion during the first quarter. This
is a record for the company. Our cash from operations provided excellent support for our capital
program, the Atlas acquisition including associated debt retirement, our dividend payments and our
share buyback program.
At quarter end, our cash balances totaled nearly $17 billion. This put us in a net cash position of
$5.3 billion. We see the 8% dividend increase and a simultaneous boost in our share repurchase
rate as meaningful moves. Combined, we believe they send strong signals about our ability to both
generate and to deliver tangible cash distribution rewards to our shareholders.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jeanette.

Jeanette Ourada, General Manager-Investor Relations
Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 5, I’ll compare results of the first quarter 2011 with the fourth quarter
2010. As a reminder, our earnings release compares first quarter 2011 with the same quarter a
year ago.
First quarter earnings were $916 million higher than the fourth quarter. Starting on the left side of
the chart, upstream earnings were up $1.1 billion, driven by higher crude oil realizations.
Downstream results were lower by $120 million. Stronger refining and chemical margins were more
than offset by unfavorable timing impacts in this quarter and the absence of fourth quarter gains on
asset sales. The variance in the other bar reflects an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.
On slide 6, our U.S. upstream earnings for the first quarter were $519 million higher than the fourth
quarter’s results. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $390 million.
U.S. crude realizations were up 17% between consecutive quarters, higher than the 11% increase
in the average spot price of West Texas Intermediate. Our U.S. crude realizations are primarily tied
to Mars, Louisiana light sweet and San Joaquin Valley heavy crudes, which all traded at premiums
to WTI during the first quarter. Natural gas realizations improved by 11% in line with Henry Hub
spot prices.
Lower sales volumes decreased earnings by $40 million between periods due to two fewer days in
the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter. Lower operating expenses benefited earnings by
$40 million between periods, primarily due to lower costs related to timing of maintenance activities.
The other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including the absence of unfavorable
year-end LIFO inventory drawdowns and lower exploration and abandonment expenses.
Turning to slide 7, international upstream earnings were up $611 million compared with the fourth
quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $910 million. Average liquids
realizations increased 20%, in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas
realizations rose 5% between quarters.
Lower liftings, primarily in Angola, Australia and Kazakhstan decreased earnings by $255 million.
This is directionally aligned with two fewer days in the quarter. Lower exploration expense benefited
earnings by $140 million due to lower well write-offs and lower data acquisition costs.
Moving to the next bar, an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects impacted earnings by
$65 million. The first quarter had a loss of about $115 million compared to a loss of about $50
million in the fourth quarter. These foreign exchange effects have no direct impact on cash. They
are primarily balance sheet translation effects.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher withholding taxes on affiliate
dividend distributions, partly offset by lower depreciation expense.

Turning to slide 8, during our March security analyst meeting, we discussed our plan to move
certain major capital projects that have reached peak production into our base business. The map
shows the specific projects being recategorized. The two bars on the graph show fourth quarter
production with both the original split between base business and MCPs and the new
categorization. The impact was a shift of 482,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron’s worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 26,000 barrels per day in the first quarter compared with the fourth quarter of
2010. Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts
during the first quarter, decreasing production about 22,000 barrels per day. In the past, we have
used the change in WTI to calculate a PSC [Production Sharing Contract] price effect. Given the
recent divergence in the WTI-Brent spread, going forward, we will use the change in Brent to
calculate a price effect because it is more closely tied to our international realizations.
The average Brent price increased $19 per barrel between quarters, which resulted in about a
1,200 barrel per day volume reduction for each dollar increase in Brent. Recall that over a range of
prices, PSC effects are not linear. As prices rise, the PSC production impact decreases.
Weather conditions in onshore U.S. Australia, and the UK lowered production 15,000 barrels per
day between quarters. Base business increased 7,000 barrels per day largely driven by an increase
in cost recovery barrels in various locations offset by normal field decline. This bar also includes a
small positive impact from the addition of six weeks of Atlas production.
Contributions from major capital projects increased first quarter production by 4,000 barrels per
day, primarily driven by continued ramp up at Perdido and Frade.
We reaffirm our full-year production outlook of 2.79 million barrels per day. The outlook assumes
$79 per barrel, the same average price as 2010 and does not assume OPEC curtailments, material
security or market impacts. We’ll provide another update on the second quarter earnings call.
Turning to slide 10, U.S. downstream earnings fell $33 million in the first quarter. Indicator margins
improved earnings by $170 million driven by higher refining margins for both the Gulf Coast and
West Coast. Both areas have stronger demand, especially for distillates. This stronger demand
occurred simultaneously with normal planned refinery maintenance. Stocks were depleted and
margins widened as a consequence of these two divergent forces.
The next bar shows a $380 million negative earnings variance, primarily reflecting the absence of a
fourth quarter gain on the sale of our interest in the Colonial Pipeline Company. Chemical earnings
improved by $90 million, mainly due to higher margins for olefins and aromatics. The other bar
includes positive impacts from lower turnaround activity in the first quarter and a favorable pipeline
rate settlement.
On slide 11, international downstream earnings were also lower, falling $87 million from fourth
quarter’s results. Margins reduced earnings by $25 million. Stronger refining margins in Asia and
Canada were more than offset by supply mix effects in Asia and lower European refining margins.
Timing effects represented a $230 million negative earnings variance between quarters reflecting a
swing from a positive $35 million in the fourth quarter to a negative $195 million in the first quarter.
The primary drivers were unfavorable inventory effects, mostly in Asia, during a period of rapidly
rising prices and the absence of fourth quarter’s favorable year-end LIFO effects.
Lower operating expenses across multiple categories benefited earnings by $35 million. The other
bar includes a number of unrelated items including small asset sales, improved shipping results,
and a favorable tax variance partly offset by lower volumes.
Slide 12 covers all other. First quarter net charges were $388 million compared to a net $294
million charge in the fourth quarter. The $94 million increase between quarters is primarily due to
an unfavorable variance in corporate tax items.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the all
other segment is still appropriate going forward.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Gary for an update on North America.

Gary P. Luquette, President, North America Exploration & Production
Thanks, Jeanette, and good morning. It’s good to be here with you. I would like to give you a brief
overview of my area of responsibility, Chevron’s North America upstream operations, and then
discuss recent progress in the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlas acquisition.
Turning to slide 14, North America has a tremendous natural resource base and they are close to
fully developed infrastructure serving large markets, making it an attractive place to do business.
We operate a solid mix of base business assets and major capital projects. Our portfolio includes
both conventional oil and natural gas and unconventional energy sources such as oil sands, coal
bed methane and shale gas, and we continue to grow our portfolio.
Our U.S. operations are anchored by assets in the Gulf of Mexico, California, Texas, and the Rocky
Mountains. In Canada, our activities reach throughout Atlantic Canada, the Arctic and the western
oil sands. In total, our North American operations account for about one-fourth of Chevron’s
production.
During the rest of our time together this morning, I want to focus on the Gulf of Mexico and our
recent Atlas acquisition. Let’s start with the Gulf of Mexico. Slide 15, with more than 60 years of
experience operating in the Gulf, we have proven that we can explore for and produce oil and gas
both safely and in an environmentally sound manner. We produced nine billion barrels of oil
equivalent as we have progressed development from the shelf into the deepwater. We maintain a
significant presence throughout the Gulf of Mexico. We are a leading lease holder across both the
shelf and the deepwater. In 2010, we averaged 260,000 barrels a day of oil equivalent making us
one of the largest producers in the region.
On slide 16, our Gulf of Mexico portfolio has a wide variety of assets and projects. These include
offshore platforms in shallow and deep water, onshore operations, gas plants, water floods and
subsea wells. We drill in deep and shallow water and operate in high pressure, high temperature
environments. We have added acreage through recent lease sales which allow to us pursue
promising ultra-deep gas opportunities in the shallow waters of the shelf. Despite the challenging
regulatory environment, Chevron remains very bullish on the Gulf of Mexico.
Let me tell you about some recent developments. Turning to slide 17, in 2010, our plans were to
drill four exploration impact wells, Moccasin, Coronado, Oceanographer and the Buckskin
appraisal. These wells were delayed by the drilling moratorium. We’re ready to get back to work
and these wells are our top priority. We will be able to do so once the new permit requirements are
fully understood and permit applications are revised and submitted. We’ll also need for the
regulators to establish an efficient method for reviewing and approving what is expected to be a
backlog of permit applications.
In late March, we received the permit for our Moccasin exploration prospect. This was the first such
exploration permit granted to any operator after the moratorium was lifted. The rig arrived on site
two days after receipt of the permit and will soon be drilling. The Buckskin permit application was
submitted on April 18th. We’re expecting an approval in the next week or two.
We have also received a permit for our second water injection well at the Tahiti 2 project and
drilling is underway. Chevron currently has three deepwater drill ships in the Gulf. Two have
returned to work and the third is awaiting a permit for our Buckskin appraisal well.

The good news is that we see activity slowly beginning to ramp up, but it’s still too early to know
what the new normal for pace of permitting and overall activity levels will be. We’re hopeful the
administration shares our goal of expedited permitting now that we’ve established higher
performance standards so we can move forward in developing our domestic energy supplies.
Our near term deepwater drilling program will require the approval of approximately ten
development and exploration plans and approximately 15 drilling permit applications for both
development and exploration wells. These are in various stages of preparation for submittal.
We plan to begin drilling development wells at Jack/St. Malo in the second half of this year. This
was always the plan and to date, start-up remains on track. Should permitting delays persist further
into the year the number of wells available at start-up could be impacted. But we remain committed
to previously communicated first oil dates.
I would now like to provide an update on Atlas. Turning to slide 18, we’re very pleased with the
Atlas acquisition which closed in mid-February. These assets are in one of the sweet spots in the
Marcellus shale, one of the key shale gas plays in North America. With the drilling carry provided by
our Marcellus joint venture partner, Chevron’s new term investment is limited. Over the next several
years, the joint venture partner will fund 75% of our drilling costs up to a total of $1.4 billion.
Equally important, the acquisition has provided us with a highly skilled work force with strong
operating experience and established land management capabilities. There are strong
organizational synergies with Chevron’s existing technical expertise and our global experience with
large-scale developments.
We have created a new business unit to manage our acquired assets. We are making good
progress on integration and expect transition activities will continue throughout the year. Early
activities are focused on capturing operational synergies on capital project management and
execution and smoothly integrating our financial and IT systems. We have a very active year
planned.
There are currently nine rigs operating in the Marcellus and we expect to drill a total of 70 wells this
year. We expect 2011 production from both the Marcellus and Antrim shales to average 115 million
cubic feet of gas per day. Our pace is measured. We are optimizing our development well
programs to lower our costs, improve well performance and shrink the time from well completion to
hookup and production.
This is a long-term play for us. We’re in a great position as we ramp up for a multiyear drilling
program. It’s a great marriage between Atlas’ commitment to the resource and Chevron’s strong
subsurface expertise and capital project discipline. Admittedly, it’s very early, but all signs are
positive and we expect to capture the value we identified in our initial evaluation.
Finally, the state of Pennsylvania has asked all Marcellus operators to cease delivering produced
water associated with shale gas extraction to publicly owned water treatment facilities by May 19th.
It was always Atlas and Chevron’s plans to discontinue disposal of surplus produced water into
these facilities by the end of the year 2011. With this recent request, we will accelerate our plan and
comply with the May 19th date.
With that, I will now turn it back over to Pat.

Patricia E. Yarrington, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President

Thanks, Gary. So now on slide 19, I’d like to wrap with a few comments on Chevron’s strategic
progress during the first quarter of the year.
We’ve stayed the course with strong safety performance after achieving our safest year ever in
2010. In the downstream, we continued to progress our portfolio rationalization efforts announcing
the sale of the Pembroke refinery and associated marketing assets in the U.K. and Ireland. We
completed the sale of our downstream businesses in the Eastern Caribbean and in certain
countries in Africa. We have also announced an agreement to sell our downstream businesses in
Spain.
Additionally in downstream, we reached a final investment decision on the construction of a $1.4
billion lubricants manufacturing facility that will be located at our Pascagoula, Mississippi refinery.
This project leverages a strong refinery and proprietary Chevron technology to meet the growing
demand for higher margin, premium lubricants.
We had a number of accomplishments in the upstream. As Gary discussed, we completed the Atlas
transaction. We were awarded 1.5 million acres in Romania, further bolstering our global shale gas
portfolio. We continued our exploration success in Western Australia with the Orthrus-2 natural gas
discovery and we announced two new oil discoveries in the Moho-Bilondo area, offshore Republic
of Congo. In addition, we signed a sales and purchase agreement with Kyushu Electric for the
delivery of LNG from the Gorgon Project.
I will close by mentioning that our upstream operations earned just under $25 per barrel for the
quarter. Based on preliminary competitive results announced to date, we outpaced our nearest
competitor by nearly $5. We’ve led our peer group on this metric now for seven consecutive
quarters. We’re definitely off to a great start in the first quarter of the year, both financially and
operationally.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks. We welcome your questions at this point. So Sean,
please open the lines.
Operator: [Operator Instructions]. Our first question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
<Q – Doug Terreson – International Strategy & Investment Group, Inc.>: Good morning
everybody.
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Good morning.
<Q – Doug Terreson – International Strategy & Investment Group, Inc.>: In international
downstream and specifically the unfavorable variances in that area, I wanted to see if you would
elaborate a little bit further on the supply mix effects that I think Jeanette attributed to Asia in the
period, that is: what were they, what products did they involve, etcetera? Just some color if you
could.
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Well, Doug, it’s really across
multiple products, multiple different products and what really happened is there was very rapidly
increasing prices in the quarter.
<Q – Doug Terreson – International Strategy & Investment Group, Inc.>: Sure.
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: So at the end of the quarter as
we revalued our inventories, you see the big negative effect there. Of that bar, 170 is related to
inventory, so that is the key driver of that bar.
<Q – Doug Terreson – International Strategy & Investment Group, Inc.>: Okay. And also in
E&P and specifically on global natural gas, there seems to be progress on Block A in Cambodia
and even more on Block B in Vietnam. So I wanted to see if we could get an update on those
projects. And also on Venezuelan gas, if there’s anything to update on Venezuelan gas?
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Well, let me start with Vietnam.
So Vietnam, we commenced front-end engineering and design in the first quarter of 2010, and we
do expect a FID decision later this year. So that project is moving forward. Cambodia, we’re still
assessing the Cambodia opportunity, and we haven’t laid out any near-term milestones for
Cambodia. And sorry, your last question?
<Q – Doug Terreson – International Strategy & Investment Group, Inc.>: Venezuelan gas, is
there anything new to report there?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: No.
<Q – Doug Terreson – International Strategy & Investment Group, Inc.>: Okay. Thanks a lot.
That’s all I have.
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Thanks, Doug.
Operator: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital. Please go ahead.
<Q – Paul Cheng – Barclays Capital, Inc.>: Thank you, good morning. Gary, two questions. One,
in Atlas, what’s the growth rate you guys are targeting or expecting for the next two to three years
given you have your partner carry your costs, and what kind of expected return that you have in
mind on that?
The second question is that you do have some reasonable land position in the Permian Basin.
What kind of opportunity do you have in terms of the nonconventional shale oil in your land
position? Also that as some of your competitors start to be more aggressive trying to get into early
into the new shale oil plays either both in Canada or as well as in the U.S. It does not seem like that
Chevron is as aggressive or they may be making as much noise as some of your competitors. I’m
wondering if there’s any insight that you can share here.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Okay. Thanks for
the questions, Paul. There’s a lot there. So let me see if I can unpack these one at a time, starting
with Atlas.
It’s way too early for to us forecast growth rates. We are just a couple months now into taking
ownership of those assets. As I mentioned in my remarks, our focus early on is going to be in trying
to build a very efficient execution process that’s going to allow us to start earning acreage, and so
we’ll have to let that unfold a little bit longer before we can start pinpointing specific growth
objectives for you.
With respect to the Permian Basin, we’re in a great position there. In fact, just a few weeks ago, we
celebrated our 5 billionth barrel of production milestone from the Permian Basin with Chevron and
Chevron legacy companies operating out there, and we have tremendous amount of opportunities
left. So we’re investing quite aggressively, not just in the conventional sorts of plays but also we’re
looking at some tight oil. This would not be considered shale oil, but certainly ultra-tight oil that we
feel will represent a nice opportunity for us to continue to add volume in the Permian Basin.
And i think your third question dealt with...
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Canada.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: ...kind of our
views toward Canada and some of the unconventionals.
<Q – Paul Cheng – Barclays Capital, Inc.>: Not just Canada but also U.S. also, Gary.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Okay, well that’s
good that you made that clarification, because I think, Paul, we typically look across North America
with the same sort of scrutiny. We look through the same lenses and we are, you know, watching
what is unfolding. We’re evaluating opportunities as they come along. Many of these opportunities
that present themselves are quite pricy because there were independents that got involved very
early on in some of the land acquisition. So we’re going to continue to look and evaluate
opportunities. But there’s nothing in particular that I can report on.
<Q – Paul Cheng – Barclays Capital, Inc.>: Gary, are you guys looking at more on the already
identified existing plays or trying to look and venture into some untested play which the entry costs
are much lower?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Well, it’s a
combination, Paul. So as we do our regional analysis to try to understand the geology and the
producing mechanisms, we’re looking across the board. Some of those lead us very early into
possible entry positions, early entry positions and others, people have already acquired the land
and we’re continuing to look at ways that Chevron can create value in those plays.
<Q – Paul Cheng – Barclays Capital, Inc.>: Just a final one, a short one. Pat or Jeanette, can you
tell us at the end of the first quarter, from an inventory standpoint, are you under-lift, over-lift or
neutral?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: We’re slightly under-lifted.
Not too dissimilar from fourth quarter.
<Q – Paul Cheng – Barclays Capital, Inc.>: Can you remind us how much?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: About a percent, Paul.
<Q – Paul Cheng – Barclays Capital, Inc.>: One percent. Thank you.
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Thanks, Paul.
Operator: Our next question comes from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
<Q – Ed Westlake – Credit Suisse (United States)>: Good morning, everyone
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Good morning.
<Q – Ed Westlake – Credit Suisse (United States)>: A question just following on to Gary from the
previous question on the Permian. You have talked about some exciting opportunities in the nonconventional and conventional. Can you just talk about what sort of general – will those
opportunities be able to offset decline? Will you be able to grow the Permian or maintain it and the
same question with regard to your Californian oil position? Thank you.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Thanks, Ed. As
you are aware, those two positions, the Permian and our heavy oil holdings in California are very,
very mature assets. Many of these fields, certainly in California, are 100 years old and in Permian
we’re talk about north of 50 years old, so I would certainly look at it as a win for Chevron if we could
hold our production levels that we currently have or at least address some of the decline that you
see in the normal field decline. I think our objective would be to try to replace declining production
with some of these new opportunities and try to hold what we have, which are quite sizable. We’re
in nearly 200,000 barrels a day in California and over 70,000 barrels a day in the Permian basin
and we want to try to hold that if possible
<Q – Ed Westlake – Credit Suisse (United States)>: And then a follow-on question on the Gulf,
on the ultra-deep gas in the gas in the shallow waters, when do you think you will test that?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Well, actually that
play is being tested now, Paul (sic) [Ed]. There are some smaller players and size companies that
have been involved in this for some time and have pretty much proven that the gas is there and we
made a move here a year ago and acquired some additional acreage and this is on top of the
acreage that we already hold by production by producing through some of the shallower zones. So
we actually are participating in an exploration well at present with a third party and we hope to get
another exploration well in in the 2011 campaign.
<Q – Ed Westlake – Credit Suisse (United States)>: Thank you, Gary.
Operator: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please
go ahead with your question
<Q – Doug Leggate – Bank of America Merrill Lynch>: That was a good effort. Thank you. Good
morning, everybody. I’m going to try a couple also. Pat, if I could try a couple for you and then one
for Gary, to take advantage of him being here.
Quick ones from me, you have redefined the base, I guess, as you explained in your prepared
remarks. What does that do to actually change the underlying decline rate? Is there any change
there in your guidance, and if I may just bolt on my other one, the exploration charges were quite
light in the quarter. Is that just a seasonal issue? Because it was light Q1 last year also? Or did it
reflect less dry hole charges or lower overall expenditure? And then I have a follow-up for Gary,
please.
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Okay, Doug, thanks. With
regard to your first question on the decline rate, we’re basically in the three to four percent range.
There’s no change in the guidance that we have given out previously. We just wanted to be very
clear about the change in the base. We mentioned it in the March meeting. We just wanted to be
very clear this time through. And with regard to the second question...
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: So on exploration, it was lower
for both reasons that you mentioned, Doug. There were lower well write-offs in the first quarter and
also lower data acquisition costs.
<Q – Doug Leggate – Bank of America Merrill Lynch>: Okay. But no real change in the overall
trend?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: No. It can be very lumpy,
as you know, just given the timing of well write-offs. That really is normally the rationale behind any
quarter-to-quarter variance.
<Q – Doug Leggate – Bank of America Merrill Lynch>: Thank you. Gary, I appreciate you being
on the call this morning. It’s really more of a big picture question. There’s been a lot of talk about
changes to drilling subsidies and so called tax benefits for the industry. I wonder if you could give
us your take on the current debate, what Chevron’s potential exposure would be, I’m guessing it’s
not significant, and just the overall perspective that Chevron brings to this and if you are in fact
having any discussions with the government over their consultations with industry, that would be
great. Thank you.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Thank you, Doug.
To my knowledge, we’re not having any specific discussions with the government right now with
respect to specific sorts of incentives that have been in place.
We have taken a general position that certainly when you look at the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,
deepwater royalty relief was a huge success for the government, for the industry and for the
American people. It accomplished what it set out to do which was to stimulate marginal play. Get
activity in there. Get proof of concept going. Get investment going and eventually get production
that drives a tax royalty revenue to the government. So it’s been a huge success.
So we’ve tried to take that message and tried to communicate that to everyone that will listen in the
administration that incentives do work and you know, when it can spur investment, then good things
can happen and follow on. But that is just kind of a general position. I don’t know if that satisfies
what you were looking for or whether you would like something else.
<Q – Doug Leggate – Bank of America Merrill Lynch>: I’m just curious. I’m not expecting any
numbers but just as a an order of materiality if drilling subsidies, intangible drilling costs and so on
were revoked, if you like, you don’t, I imagine, have a significant onshore position that would
meaningfully impact you? I am just looking for some confirmation if it would be material or if it would
be less material, would it change your investment strategy, would it alter your investment in the
base decline onshore U.S.? Those kinds of issues are really what I’m trying to get to.
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Right. I think, Doug, we
actually take issue with even using the word subsidy in some of the dialogue that the administration
has had because this really is just deductions that have been allowed for our industry as well as a
whole host of other industries. It really is not a subsidy at all here.
So our dialogue back with the administration really is trying to get clarity around those points and
really when you think about it, particularly around the IDCs, this is something that has been in play
for a long period of time, for decades. It allows to you have an earlier deduction for a risky
business, that for a smaller player in particular, allows them to afford the huge capital outlays that
they’re putting at risk.
And so I think for smaller companies in particular, this is an enormous issue for companies like that,
and really, the message we want to get across here on this point is that in order to make more
supplies available for the globe and to get energy prices into the more affordable range, what you
really want to do is incent production and incent domestic supplies not tax them or take away tax
deductions that they have currently.
<Q – Doug Leggate – Bank of America Merrill Lynch>: Sorry, Pat; would it change your
investment philosophy or not?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: You know, I think it’s a
hypothetical and we don’t really want to go there. Obviously, we’d have to look at the full economics
of what’s allowed from a tax code standpoint.
<Q – Doug Leggate – Bank of America Merrill Lynch>: I understand. Thank you very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with the Benchmark Company. Please go
ahead with your question.
<Q – Mark Gilman – The Benchmark Co. LLC>: Good morning, folks. I had a couple for Gary.
First, Gary, Moccasin and Coronado, are those Miocene or lower tertiary prospects?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Lower tertiary.
<Q – Mark Gilman – The Benchmark Co. LLC>: In both cases?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Yes.
<Q – Mark Gilman – The Benchmark Co. LLC>: Okay. Can you update us or comment at all on
your planned activity in the Duvernay?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: We are going to
start an exploration appraisal program late this fall, Mark, and we have additional wells planned in
2012. We’re going to do some seismic work and use the seismic and well work to start trying to
better understand the resource potential in that recent lease acquisition.
<Q – Mark Gilman – The Benchmark Co. LLC>: Okay, and just one more if I could regarding
Atlas specifically. How does the activity level envisioned for this year compare to that which Atlas
had under way previously? And can you give me a rough idea what some of the individual well
metrics look like in terms of IPs or EURs, Gary?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Okay, Mark. First
of all, a pretty substantial increase year on year in terms of activity levels, but I must say, not as
high as what Atlas had planned.
As we have taken control of that operation and started working with the Atlas employee base and
the contractor base, I think we felt going a little bit slower early on to try to take a more measured
approach towards building the execution efficiency that we want was in order, but we’re going to be
on the level of about 70 wells this year, which is about five times what they drilled in 2010.
So we’re on a very steep curve. It’s very early in the processing of that resource base. So we
expect to continue to increase our activity levels there, but at a very measured pace to make sure
that we get it done right the Chevron way.
And on the last question, I think it’s just too early for us to start putting a dot on the map with
respect to IPs or EURs. It’s – obviously, we have expectations for that resource, but it’s still too
early for to us really be able to represent that.
<Q – Mark Gilman – The Benchmark Co. LLC>: Okay, thanks, Gary.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Thank you, Mark
Operator: Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup. Please go ahead with your
question.
<Q – Faisel Khan – Citigroup Global Markets (United States)>: Thanks, good morning.
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Good morning, Faisel.
<Q – Faisel Khan – Citigroup Global Markets (United States)>: I was wondering if you could
help us with the overall picture on North America, Gary. If we’re looking at the returns on capital
with the onshore, unconventional liquids play and if we’re looking kind of deep offshore, I guess,
where are the relative returns, and what’s a better place to put that incremental dollar to work if you
had to be forced to put a dollar in one place or another?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Well, we have a
very diverse portfolio, Faisel, and we’re in the business both for short-term returns as well as
longer-term positioning ourselves to have good access to resources for the next 10 years and the
10 years after that. So we kind of use a basket, if you will, of performance metrics that we use in
allocating our capital program. So it’s hard to pick winners and losers. Some represent a lowerreturn, longer-lived sort of resources. The others represent shorter payout, higher-return sorts of
opportunities. And what we try to do is balance that across a portfolio of investment opportunities.
<Q – Faisel Khan – Citigroup Global Markets (United States)>: Okay, so no – you couldn’t give
me a relative view of which areas are better than others in terms of the different prospects?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: No, I really can’t.
Because we’re managing across the North American portfolio and then the North American
portfolio is then fit into a global upstream portfolio, so I think it would be just too hard to do that right
now.
<Q – Faisel Khan – Citigroup Global Markets (United States)>: Okay, got you. If I’m looking at
the 15 permit applications that you guys intend to file, are those going to all come at once? Are they
going to come over a period of the next 12 to 24 months?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: So they’re going
to come over a period of time, but the permit applications that I laid out in my opening remarks are
going to come sooner versus later. These are all permits for exploration wells, development wells,
delineation wells associated with the program that we have laid out over the next couple of years.
So we expect to move those permits as swiftly as we can through our shop and into the
government shop so that they can start their process of review and approval.
<Q – Faisel Khan – Citigroup Global Markets (United States)>: Okay, great. And then if I’m
looking at the lower 48 for you guys for your onshore rig activity, both gas and liquids, how many
rigs do you guys have deployed between those two plays, and how do you think that’ll trend
throughout the year?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Well, I can’t
answer how many rigs. It’s just a detail that I don’t have with me this morning, but I can assure you
that rig count is higher in 2011 than it was in 2010. We are increasing activity both onshore and
offshore, and so those counts are increasing.
<Q – Faisel Khan – Citigroup Global Markets (United States)>: Okay, great. I appreciate the
time. Thank you.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Thank you for the
questions.
Operator: Our next question comes from Iain Reid with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Hi, there, guys. I’ve got a question for Gary, and
then one for Pat. Gary, you’ve been obviously responsible for talking to the regulatory authorities
about the Gulf of Mexico drilling. In terms of the increased oversight and the requirements for
testing of BOPs, et cetera, how much do you think that’s going to add to the cost of a kind of
average exploration and an average development well in your opinion?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Well, we still
haven’t, I think, got at a run rate and a pace, Iain, that would let me understand what the total
revamped system incremental costs might be. I think the costs that we are – the change that we
most are concerned about is the time required to process permits. Clearly, there’s going to
incremental cost. We know for instance on the recent well designs that we have put in, we’ve had
to enhance our casing program, in some cases, running casing all the way back up to the surface
whereas in the past, that was done in a tieback fashion.
So we’re seeing incremental costs on the casing program of those wells that could be in the range
of 10% of the well costs. But the whole system of inspection, certification, implementing, verifying,
certifying, all that is yet to be sussed out. We’re going to need more time.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: So have you actually reconsidered drilling certain
wells due to this increased requirements that you see now?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: No. It hasn’t
changed our view towards individual wells or toward the Gulf of Mexico in the broader sense.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Okay, thanks. Yeah, and one question about
Australia. You’ve had further exploration success in the Carnarvon and you showed us at the
strategy meeting your resource base there. I just wonder how close you are now to starting serious
work on the fifth train at Gorgon there?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: I think it’s really
premature to have us go down that path. I mean, we did show you materials back in March that
suggested we’ve got additional gas supplies available that would support or underpin a fourth train,
but I don’t want to get too far out over our skis in thinking beyond that.
I will say it is a hugely prolific basin, however, and so if that becomes – if we have continued
exploration success there, then that’s something that certainly would be in our sights. Obviously,
brownfield expansions are much more economic than greenfield, and if there’s a way to see
ourselves to a fifth train, we certainly would like to do that. But we’re not at that stage of committing
to that at this point.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Do you think you need more drilling to do that, or it
is just more interpretation of what you’ve got?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: I think there’s more
drilling and interpretation.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Okay. One final question. On your dividend
increase, I was a bit confused about whether that applied to this quarter or whether that’s a second
quarter event?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: It’ll be a second quarter
payment.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Payment. Yeah, and declared as...
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: So a second quarter
dividend for the second quarter payment will be at $0.78 a share.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Okay. So the first quarter dividend is still $0.72?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: That’s correct.
<Q – Iain Reid – Jefferies International Ltd.>: Okay, thanks very much.
<A – Jeanette Ourada – General Manager-Investor Relations>: Thank you, Iain.
Operator: Our next question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar. Please go ahead with your
question.
<Q – Allen Good – Morningstar Research>: Good morning, I wonder, Gary, if you could just
expand a little bit on the new business unit that was established with Atlas. Is that going to include
all of Chevron’s preexisting unconventional resources, and that will wrap in the global portfolio as
well?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Thanks for the
question, Allen, and the short answer is no, it will not. Initially, the new business unit is going to be
focused on the recent acquisitions, the assets that Atlas had in the portfolio. That includes the
Marcellus as well as the Antrim production out of Michigan.
We want this unit to get focused early on, on those assets to make sure that we have a smooth
transition, a smooth integration and we get started on the right foot. We also realize that there’s
going to be things that we’re going to develop and learn from this asset base that’s going to be very
applicable to some of the shale gas acquisitions, the acreage that we picked up over the course of
2010.
So we’re going to start working on surrounding this organization with a center of expertise for shale
gas that will allow to us leverage those learnings but at the same time, we want to be very careful
that our start in the Marcellus a good one, a safe one, a reliable one so that we can build a very
sound base there for decades to come.
<Q – Allen Good – Morningstar Research>: Sounds good. I wonder if you can elaborate as well
on your water treatment plans? I know that whole situation has gotten a lot of press lately on the
detrimental impact – or supposed detrimental impact from the fracking fluid and the other water
treatment plants. I was interested in what your plan is there if you are not going to be able to treat it
at the public utilities anymore?
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Right. Eventually,
we were going to get there anyway, Allen, and we were going to do that through adding a second
and eventually growing our frac spread so that we can drill and complete more wells. That’s on the
natural plan and what we’re going to do is we’re going to accelerate some of that activity so we’ll
actually add a frac spread to our operation a little earlier. That will consume much of the surplus
water and then the rest of the water that is left over we’ll inject in permitted disposal wells.
<Q – Allen Good – Morningstar Research>: Okay, sounds good. I appreciate it.
<A – Gary Luquette – President, North America Exploration & Production>: Thank you.
Operator: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James. Please go
ahead.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov – Raymond James & Associates>: Thanks for taking my question. I
hoped to get an update on of two your frontier programs. The Liberian entrance from late last year
and also your plans for Romania from earlier this year?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Really, way don’t have a
tremendous amount of update relative to what we said back in March. We have the three licenses
that we acquired. We have a 70% interest there. Obviously, it’s a significant deepwater – there has
been significant deepwater discoveries in the region and we’re maturing the prospects. We plan to
drill a well later this year.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov – Raymond James & Associates>: That’s Liberia. And on Romania?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: You know, on Romania, it
really is, you know, drilling as well. Further evaluation, seismic activity as the year progresses.
There’s not, you know, extensive more update that I can provide at that point in time.
<Q – Pavel Molchanov – Raymond James & Associates>: Okay, thanks very much.
Operator: Our next question comes from Hernán Ladeuix with CLSA. Please go ahead.
<Q – Hernán Ladeuix – CLSA (Singapore) Pte Ltd.>: Good morning. I had a question about the
energy projects in Australia. I wonder if you can share any thought about the impact of the
Australian dollar on the cost of Gorgon and potentially on the plans for Wheatstone?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Right. Both projects,
Gorgon and Wheatstone, obviously, you know, could be affected by the foreign exchange impact,
but I would just say both projects and let me focus in primarily on Gorgon. You know, it’s a global
project. We have a lot of activity that’s going on in Australia, but there is an awful lot of the
procurement activity that is done globally so we have currency impacts that are Korean, other Asian
countries, European, U.S. dollar, etcetera. So, you know, it is a multicurrency project and, you
know, it’s part of the impact that will occur over multiple years.
Same thing would be true of a Wheatstone project. I would just offer, though, that we have, as we
go forward on these projects from an FID standpoint, we have an awful lot of the cost activity that is
well defined and well scoped and in many cases, fully committed. So on Gorgon, we committed and
reaffirmed back in March that we were on schedule and on cost for the Gorgon project. On
Wheatstone we intend to go to FID later this year. We have the contracts out for bid at this point in
time and we should have a firm estimate of what that project cost will be at that point in time.
<Q – Hernán Ladeuix – CLSA (Singapore) Pte Ltd.>: Jeanette, should we still think about $37
billion on that given the fact that not only the Australian but other currencies have moved quite
substantially?
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: Yes, you should consider
to think about the $37 billion. Remember, that’s over a 60-month construction period, and you
know, the dollar moves up and down and there’s an awful lot of variation that can occur and we’re
early days into this. We’re only about 20 months or so into the Gorgon project so there’s a lot of
time left as well.
<Q – Hernán Ladeuix – CLSA (Singapore) Pte Ltd.>: Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator: I’m not showing any further questions in the queue at this time.
<A – Patricia Yarrington – Chief Financial Officer & Vice President>: All right. I guess that we’ll
close off here and let me wrap up and just say I thank everybody’s their time and attention here this
morning and the participation on the call. I particularly want to ask and applaud the folks who asked
the questions because that helps get more clarification out there. Thank you, everybody, appreciate
your interest in Chevron. Good-bye.
Operator: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes Chevron’s first quarter 2011 earnings
could conference call. You may now disconnect.